---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: The Return of the Pumpkin Spice 
excerpt: "It’s that time of the year again, the most dreaded season for any student: the beginning of the new school year. Although many wish for a perfect year at the bottom of their hearts, students rarely have such fortune."
---

<h2>The Return of the Pumpkin Spice </h2>
<h4>By Bailey Mirmelli</h4>

Sweatshirts, football, Halloween costumes, hot drinks: autumn is a widely anticipated and well-loved time of the year. However, here in Scottsdale, Arizona, we don’t have the chilly mornings, colorful leaves, and warm fireplaces to let us know when fall arrives; for all we know, fall begins in December. Fortunately, however, with fall comes one thing, and we can see it going out to eat, grabbing the weekly groceries, driving past advertisements: pumpkin-spice flavored everything.

Pumpkins are the essence of autumn, and many businesses take this to heart. Coffee companies, especially Starbucks, readily take advantage of the fall flavor’s allure. In fact, according to Forbes, pumpkin spice lattes are so crucial to Starbucks sales that September through November are the company’s most profitable months. When the drink was released on September 1st, 2016, sales spiked immediately, and the very next day was the company’s tenth busiest day of the entire year. Actually, numerous Starbucks customers have confessed only going to Starbucks in the fall, on account of the availability of pumpkin spice lattes. 

Dunkin’ Donuts, McDonald’s, and Krispy Kreme have all followed Starbucks’ example, introducing their own pumpkin spice coffee drinks and bakery goods. But coffee companies are not the only ones using the world’s obsession with pumpkin spice for profit. From cookies to cereal to dog treats, the sweet, spicy flavor appears everywhere. Here are a couple of some pumpkin spice products to keep an eye out for during your next trip to the supermarket.

<strong>Oreo® Pumpkin Spice Crème Cookie</strong>

Golden Oreos, mint Oreos, lemon Oreos, birthday cake Oreos, thin Oreos: the Oreo shelf would not be complete without a seasonal pumpkin spice version. Made from two classic golden Oreo cookies and a sweet pumpkin cream, these treats make a perfect fall dessert for only $2.99. Bonus points: crush and sprinkle some on pumpkin-flavored ice cream. 

<strong>Kellogg's® Eggo® Pumpkin Spice Waffles</strong>

The best way to wake up in the fall is to wake up to a hot fall breakfast. With spices of cinnamon, nutmeg, and ginger to accompany the pumpkin flavor, these waffles are sure to please, ready to eat in only five minutes. Top with a slice of butter and a drizzle of maple syrup, and you have a sweet and satisfying start to your day. 

<strong>Rossi Pumpkin Spice Fettuccini</strong>

Who knew that pumpkin spice could make its way to the dinner table? Best topped with sliced turkey, toasted pumpkin seeds, and brown butter (a Rossi suggestion), these natural pumpkin fettuccini noodles will bring a unique twist to any dinner. Surprisingly well in- demand, the pasta is offered throughout the entire year, if you end up enjoying the taste of autumn on your dinner plate. 

<strong>Wrigley’s Extra Pumpkin Spice Sugar Free Gum</strong>

Needing even more pumpkin spice this fall? Try chewing some of Wrigley’s special edition gum, allowing the flavor of fall to remain even between meals. 

<strong>Recipe of the Month:
Do-It-Yourself Pumpkin Spice Latte (1 serving)</strong>

<table style="">
  <tr>
    <td>1 tbsp. canned pumpkin</td>
    <td>1/4 tsp. pumpkin pie spice</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>1/2-1 tbsp. sugar</td>
    <td>1/2 tsp. vanilla extract</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>1 cup milk</td>
    <td>1 shot hot espresso</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>whipped cream</td>
  </tr>
</table>
Add the pumpkin and pumpkin spice in a small saucepan and cook over medium heat for approximately two minutes, stirring constantly. Stir in the sugar until the mixture looks syrupy. Whisk in the milk and vanilla extract. Continue to warm gently over medium heat, watching carefully to make sure the mixture doesn't boil over. Carefully, process the milk mixture with a blender until frothy. In a mug, pour the hot espresso and add in the blended mixture. Top with a swirl of whipped cream and a sprinkle of extra pumpkin pie spice, if desired.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
