---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: Garbus’s Monthly Grumble   
excerpt: "In this episode: Aesthetics, or why all schools should copy BASIS Scottsdale."
---

<h2>Garbus’s Monthly Grumble </h2>
<h4>By Michael Garbus</h4>

In this episode: Aesthetics, or why all schools should copy BASIS Scottsdale.
Let me take you through what it’s like to enter the BASIS Scottsdale lobby for the first time. First, you open the door to the school, shrouded by mystery with its dimmed glass windows, and the cool, totally-at-the right- temperature air blasts you in the face. Immediately, you think, “Whoa, dude... I’ve just like... entered the upper echelons of education” — and you're right. The large “#1 School in the Nation” banner agrees with you. You look to your left and see the monstrous mural with all sorts of tech mumbo-jumbo you could only hope to understand, juxtaposed with pictures of double helices and famous mathematicians. “Wow,” you think, “it was so nice of them to let the fourth graders design a mural. I especially love the JPEG artifacts that don’t detract from the programming language that isn’t taught at BASIS.”

You notice a theme: there’s a certain green, that's present throughout the school, and it really makes you think. “Hmm,” you think. “This color really makes me think.” That’s because it’s the color of knowledge— that's right, it's color #5F9B39. You might recognize it from the color used in mental asylums to make sure its inmates are nice and relaxed. You saunter towards the doors, separating the lobby from the school, and after completing a full background check, IQ test, X-ray, CAT and MRI scan, scrub-down, five practice SAT tests (withwriting), and signing a non-disclosure agreement, you are in. BASIS has just got to keep this place secure—we don’t want any silly folks entering our fine establishment.

You continue strolling down the hall, observing the clean, organized lockers, belonging to the fourth graders, whose knowledge equivocates them to college students, glancing at the 100% pristine bathrooms, and noting the water fountains, bubbling with some fluid that is only just below the legal limit of atrazine, arsenic, lead, and mercury. Something catches your eye, right near Mrs. Reznik’s room. It’s at your bottom left, right after the end of the lockers. “Dang, BASIS is so prepared for a fire! They even have a valve at the end of the lockers, ready for action!” Now, you should be at an intersection, or what the students like to call, “the crossroads of Biology Road and Chemistry Avenue.” On your journey, you might see a gaggle of fourth graders, or maybe a mob of fifth graders, and they’ll give you a glare. This isn’t a bad B.O. glare or a new kid kind of glare. This is the kind of glare that someone gives when they see something clearly inferior chilling out right in front of their lockers. Do not be alarmed when they look at you like this: just accept that compared to them, you are primordial soup and will never catch up to them. Don’t even try to compete.

You keep on moving, but you should be aware of the laws of halls. I know that it's going to be impossible to explain these rules to a newcomer, so just do as the Romans do. Know that if you slow down traffic, act disorderly, or even talk in these halls, you better have an escape plan, because you are going to be scorned immediately. You look down and see a filled in crack right near Mr. R. Carey’s room. That crack materialized when a student dropped all of his books on the ground. That’s right: BASIS equips students with enough knowledge to break concrete floors.

Now, you get caught in a sea of Lower School students and are whisked up some stairs. Look to your left at a window: its glass is opaque, to provide just enough vitamin D to keep students going and to keep stragglers from getting distracted from the outside world. But really, why would anyone even want to interact with the outside world when they have all of the world’s knowledge concentrated in this one building?

At this time, you might notice an odd smell, a strange stench. That’s because BASIS has special air canisters that slowly ooze glucose mixed with nootropics to unlock the maximum potential of the student’s brains. To the untrained nose, it smells like body odor; to the trained mind, it smells like victory.

Your brain has probably used up all of its resources to try and tag along with the students by now, and if we physically went in and looked at your brain as they do in old cartoons, we would probably see a car dragging a piece of sheet metal, screeching on the road. You’re overwhelmed. This amazing school has led to a complete brain drain, and it's time for you to leave. You reach the front doors and return to the world of the ignorant.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
