---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: What Is Ontology?  
excerpt: "Last month, I discussed logic and how philosophy still applies today. Assuming that everyone reading this edition is convinced that philosophy is useful, it is time to discuss how to construct a worldview. It may seem overwhelming to create an answer to every question that has ever been asked, but luckily, not all questions are on the same level."
---

<h2>What Is Ontology?</h2>
<h4>By Caleb King </h4>

Last month, I discussed logic and how philosophy still applies today. Assuming that everyone reading this edition is convinced that philosophy is useful, it is time to discuss how to construct a worldview. It may seem overwhelming to create an answer to every question that has ever been asked, but luckily, not all questions are on the same level. Some questions only arise when others are answered, and that is where ontology comes in. 

Ontology is the study of existence. In this field, a philosopher can decide which questions need to be answered and which can be avoided. For example, questions of ethics can be ignored if there is no free will. The most general starting point is to choose between a dualist or a materialist point of view. Put simply, dualism is the belief that there is existence besides physical objects, and materialism is the belief that physical objects are all that exists. 

An easy way to see which category you fall into is to ask these questions: Are you religious? Do you believe in an intelligent designer? Do you believe in a soul? Do you believe in free will? If you answered yes to any of those questions, you are a dualist; if you answered no to all of them, you are likely a materialist. 

Dualism is the most common of the two beliefs, and not merely because it contains most religious people. This problem asks the simple question: “Is the mind separate from the brain?” The brain, of course, is the organ in the human skull that collects and interprets data, storing memories and issuing commands. The mind, on the other hand, is the location of thoughts, decisions, and free will. 

Materialism’s least attractive aspect is its conclusion that if there is nothing outside of the physical world, then the mind and the brain are the same thing. If this is true, then all thoughts are controlled by chemical hormones and electric nerve signals, and “choices” are really not choices at all. After all, how can chemicals “choose” between two paths? As far as science has demonstrated, they can’t. And that means that humans couldn’t, either. In dualism, however, if the mind and body are separate, then something more than chemicals is responsible for an individual’s thoughts and actions. For the majority of people, the promise of free will is enough to favor dualism. 

There are people who still give up belief in free will to remain completely loyal to science, however. Materialists often justify their beliefs by claiming that there is little evidence in favor of a mind outside of the brain, and that while free will as a concept is comforting, it is not plausible. 

Materialists assert that thinking is actually a long series of steps required to reach an inevitable conclusion, like the steps in solving a math equation. Essentially, a Saxon math question is the stimulus, the work shown on the math homework is thought process, and the answer at the end is the human’s action. In math, there is only one answer to a question with a few different strategies to solve it. Likewise, each human may work through a problem differently, but they can only ever reach one conclusion. Thus, a materialist denies free will. 

Last week’s question was on perception, though, so where does this fit in? Next month, I will address the second conflict in ontology: phenomenalism versus realism. For now, the question I leave you off with is this: are you a dualist or a materialist, and why? 



<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
