---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: How to Become a Star Student 101   
excerpt: "It’s that time of the year again, the most dreaded season for any student: the beginning of the new school year. Although many wish for a perfect year at the bottom of their hearts, students rarely have such fortune."
---

<h2>How to Become a Star Student 101</h2>
<h4>By Kobe Simon</h4>

<strong>#1: Use fidget spinners in class.</strong>
The soft, whooshing sound of spinners, music to any teacher’s ears, will relax your mind and help you and your peers focus on learning. Having one always spinning away will show your teachers that you are willing to do whatever it takes to perform at your best in class.
<strong>#2: Always turn homework in late, if at all.</strong>
Turning in your assignments late not only will translate well in future teacher recommendation letters, but also will reveal to your teachers that you are an authentic individual. Teachers love originality, and although they may yell at you, they merely do this to keep up appearances. On the inside, they are brimming with pride.
<strong>#3: Check your social media.</strong>
Checking your Insta during an important lecture will, in addition to earning you some automatic street cred, demonstrate how you have your priorities straight and own a social life. Your parents will also be thrilled with your worldly connectedness when they get to drive to the school to re-possess your phone.
<strong>#4: Do homework for other classes.</strong>
There isn’t a faster way to get your teachers in a great mood than to be caught doing homework for other classes. Not only will they pick up on your superb organizational skills, they will praise your ability to multitask. If a teacher rips up your homework, don’t be alarmed. This is a sign of his or her faith in you: he or she knows you are capable of finishing it a second time.
<strong>#5: Leave quizzes and tests blank.</strong>
Your test will look completely different from anyone else’s, and how many times have you heardteachers emphasize how much they value originality? Not only that, but teachers will appreciate you lessening their workload and give you that A+ you deserve anyways.
<strong>#6: Ask to go to the bathroom during discussion.</strong>
This will completely throw off the flow of the class, which is a good thing. It will show your teachers that you care about your peers’ stress levels and will ensure everyone gets a much-needed break from those intense discussions.
<strong>#7: Arrive fashionably late—ten minutes into the period should do it.</strong>
Another way to put a smile on your teachers’ faces is to arrive ten or so minutes late to every class. They will appreciate your valiant attempts to give other students the closer attention they deserve. And who knows--you might start a trend.
<strong>#8: Sleep.</strong>
Not only will other students receive more attention, but also your teachers will appreciate your attempts at peaceful meditation. When the test comes, they will acknowledge that you were not awake for the material and will give you an automatic 100% (and probably a plaque as well).
<strong>#9: Repeatedly click pens.</strong>
Even better than the sound of fidget spinners is the rhythmic clicking of pens, gaining the attention of anyone in the room. This will demonstrate your ability to lead, should the situation warrant.
<em>Note: The BASIS Gazette is not be responsible for results, positive or negative, that occur after diligently asserting these techniques.</em>

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
