---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: A Hitchhiker’s Guide to the MLB 
excerpt: "October, a.k.a. the month when people begin to care about baseball again, is near! The postseason lurks, and fans re-engage in the season for the climax of the long one-hundred-and-sixty-two-game schedule. So here is your guide for what happened this year in the baseball world"
---

<h2>A Hitchhiker’s Guide to the MLB </h2>
<h4>By Tanay Vedartham </h4>

October, a.k.a. the month when people begin to care about baseball again, is near! The postseason lurks, and fans re-engage in the season for the climax of the long one-hundred-and-sixty-two-game schedule. So here is your guide for what happened this year in the baseball world:

We started the MLB season in April with a bunch of surprises in the American League. The Yankees, Orioles, and Astros were dominant, as expected, but a couple others were, too. The Rockies, the Nationals, and even our hometown Diamondbacks showed much promise. But, that was only the beginning.

May saw division and wildcard races get a lot tighter. The beloved Dodgers surged ahead and the Red Sox emerged, leading the National League (NL) West and American League (AL) East divisions, respectively. The defending World Series Champion Cubs, the Royals, and the Giants were all disappointingly on the decline.

June was the month of the Rookies: Aaron Judge and Cody Bellinger were unstoppable, destroying baseballs and numerous records. The young Houston Astros emerged as AL favorites to win the pennant, running away with the division title for June. The NL took no days off: one losing streak could put any team back in the race for October.

The All-Star Game came to pick up a “slow” July for many teams. Judge clawed his way up to claim the title of Home Run Derby Champ against Minnesota’s underdog Miguel Sano (11-10). The real game came with more on-field player interviews than a Japanese game show, giving us a chance to see a more relatable side to the multi-millionaire athletes. The match resulted in the AL winning 2-1 in a low-scoring affair. Back in the regular season, some teams slumped while others gained momentum. The Cubs emerged, while the Orioles fell from their glorious start. Boston and New York were nearly identical in their records, building more hope for a return to meeting in the postseason. The AL Wild Card Race slowly became contested by six teams. Los Angeles became the home to the unbeatable Dodgers, while the Astros, the former laughingstock, piled up emphatic wins of destructive capability.

The beloved underdogs that had been hit hard in July regained control in August, and the untouchable Dodgers became immortal. Comparable to the 73-game winning Golden State Warriors adding Kevin Durant and the Super Bowl-winning Patriots not losing any major pieces, the Dodgers traded for the best pitcher on the market: Yu Darvish.

In conclusion, baseball is exciting again. The Cubs and the Indians are back, raising the possibility for a World Series rematch; the renowned Red Sox and Yankees are racking up wins, but so are the Angels, Twins, Mariners, Royals, Rangers, and Orioles; the Diamondbacks and the Rockies came out of the slums of 2016 and seem to have a good chance in making the playoffs; and the Dodgers, Astros, and Nationals ran away with their divisions months ago.

Finally, I send condolences to the fans of the Braves, Reds, Padres, White Sox, Athletics, Tigers, Giants, Mets, Pirates, and the Blue Jays. Unfortunately, your favorite team will not be making it to the playoffs in this year.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
