---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: Crazy Candies  
excerpt: "With Halloween approaching, the cravings for all sorts of sugary delights are reigniting with a vengeance: Hershey’s, Reese's Cups, lollipops, Lifesavers, Haribo, Snickers, Three Musketeers... if it’s sweet, just about anyone will eat it. However, the following crazy candies may make you rethink your sweet tooth."
---

<h2>Crazy Candies </h2>
<h4>By Katelyn Cai </h4>

With Halloween approaching, the cravings for all sorts of sugary delights are reigniting with a vengeance: Hershey’s, Reese's Cups, lollipops, Lifesavers, Haribo, Snickers, Three Musketeers... if it’s sweet, just about anyone will eat it. However, the following crazy candies may make you rethink your sweet tooth.

<strong>Accoutrements Meatball Gumballs:</strong> Everybody loves a good, hearty, meaty gumball right? They are great for protein.

<strong>Accoutrements Pickle Gumballs:</strong> What’s better than a meatball gumball? A pickle gumball. Get ready to relish the thrill of the dill.

<strong>Chocolate Covered Squid:</strong> This delicacy is made only in Japan, so order a bunch online or make your own.

<strong>Frankford Candy Body Parts:</strong> You know those times when you just really want to nibble on a severed ear, and the law just won’t let you? Well, now you can munch on body parts of all shapes and sizes!

<strong>Boo-Boo Licks:</strong> Nothing makes your Halloween extra special like scab-covered-bandage gummies.

<strong>Wildmart’s Urine Sample Candy:</strong> What’s more appetizing than sour, yellow goop?

<strong>Guittard Chocolate’s Dog Poop Candy:</strong> No explanation needed.

<strong>Accoutrements Vampire-Repelling Garlic Mints:</strong> Be prepared: you never know when a vampire could strike. However, you might want to brush your teeth immediately after the threat has passed, otherwise your own breath will be the real killer.

<strong>Hotlix Suckers: These bug lollypops give a two- for-one deal:</strong> good for both protein and sweetness. Who would say no?
Chef Ghoulicious Zit Poppers: These are a teen’s worst nightmare. Be ready for red ooze to haunt your dreams tonight.

Well, that’s all I can handle for today. There are many more odd (and disgusting) candies out there, that I have decided not to mention. If you’re curious, look it up yourself.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
