---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: Nixon vs Trump: Who Did It Better?    
excerpt: "While some discontented Americans have declared that Donald Trump will go down as the worst president in American history, others recount an earlier contender for that position: Richard Nixon. While both presidents benefitted America in some ways, they received extensive disapproval and criticism by the media and the general American public."
---

<h2>Nixon vs Trump: Who Did It Better? </h2>
<h4>By Bhavik Rajaboina</h4>

While some discontented Americans have declared that Donald Trump will go down as the worst president in American history, others recount an earlier contender for that position: Richard Nixon. While both presidents benefitted America in some ways, they received extensive disapproval and criticism by the media and the general American public. 

Richard Nixon, the 37th U.S. President, had quite the campaign, influencing many to support his cause. According to History in Pieces, he had an approval rating of roughly 60% when entering office. This high rate is often attributed to the establishment of the Environmental Protection Agency, organized to prevent the dumping of harmful radioactive wastes into the environment. However, the continued involvement of American soldiers in the Vietnam War during his early years in office spurred much disapproval, especially among the youth. In act, his approval ratings dropped from 60% to about 44% early on, according to a 1969 Gallup poll. In response, he stopped drafting soldiers into the army, though this, interestingly, did not raise his popularity by much. He experienced his most significant drop in June 1972, when a few burglars were arrested in the Democratic National Committee for stealing confidential documents and other private information. Nixon, desperate to become re- elected, had connections with these burglars. Although, it wasn’t until 1974 that the truth was revealed and he resigned his position as President. His attempts to influence the election led many Americans to question their governmental leaders. Owing to the disorder he caused, Richard Nixon may be the most unpopular President in American history. 

Donald Trump became the 45th president of the United States on January 20th, 2017. His initial approval rating was 45.5%, slightly lower than other recent presidents like Barack Obama, having an approval rating of roughly 68% percent at the beginning of his term. One reason for Trump’s low early rating was the controversy of his foreign policy ideas. For instance, his travel ban executive order, preventing many from seven different countries (i.e. Yemen, Iraq, Syria, Lybia, Sudan, Iran, and Somalia) from coming to the United States, spurred much disfavor among American citizens who voiced their displeasure at airports. While many people criticized Trump for limiting the number of refugees that entered the country, he significantly boosted the American economy. In fact, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the number of people with jobs had increased by 395,000 from February to May of 2017. In the same amount of time, Obama increased the number of employed workers by merely 15,000. Furthermore, the unemployment rate hit 4.3% in May, lower than it had been since 2007. Nevertheless, Trump must improve his image overseas. According to the Pew Research Center, in a sample of 37 nations, Trump received a median of 22% confidence that he will make the right decisions, compared to Obama’s 64%. Russia and Israel were the only two countries with higher confidence in Trump than in Obama. 

In summary, at the beginning of his term, Richard Nixon was a very popular President with a high approval rating. His environmental protection policies were popular, winning him much support; however, his involvement in Vietnam and the Watergate Scandal led to his downfall. On the other hand, Donald Trump has boosted the economy extremely well in the United States, but must improve his reputation, nationally and overseas, if he wishes to garner more support by the end of his term. While both presidents have their achievements, they share significant shortcomings in their popularity. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
