---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: What to do With Your First Paycheck 
excerpt: "Money can’t necessarily buy happiness, but it can pay for college. Too many young people overlook the importance of saving money, choosing instead to use that paycheck towards a car or the newest iPhone. Few actually focus on the benefits of long-term investing, leaving the intricacies of value investing and stock exchange for grownups."
---

<h2>What to do With Your First Paycheck</h2>
<h4>By Zand Gorji</h4>

Money can’t necessarily buy happiness, but it can pay for college. Too many young people overlook the importance of saving money, choosing instead to use that paycheck towards a car or the newest iPhone. Few actually focus on the benefits of long-term investing, leaving the intricacies of value investing and stock exchange for grownups. However, everyone can manage his or her own money. Getting a new paycheck is a thrill, but making more money with that paycheck, turning $1,000 into $10,000, is the true triumph. As Warren Buffett puts it, “Rule #1: Never lose money. Rule #2: Always follow Rule #1.” 

Start a stock portfolio. There is no better time to capitalize on the stock market than at a young age. Ask your legal guardian to start a stock-trading account in their name, if you are still under eighteen. I suggest Vanguard, as the company charges a transaction fee of only $5 for each share, encouraging its customers to buy in bulk. With no preexisting knowledge, investing in large-cap stocks (those with revenues surpassing billions of dollars) might not provide the most upside in the short run. Instead, aim for achieving a steady increase in monetary growth in the long run. You can start by tuning in to economic or stock market podcasts, which will help you realize which stocks you can afford and which are out of your grasp. Stocks like Amazon (AMZN), Apple (AAPL), and Tesla (TSLA) provide minimal risk with a decent amount of monetary benefits. For instance, from 2015 to 2017, AMZN has increased in value from $780 to $950, a steady growth that many should look to accumulate. Make sure to look for actual stocks and not merely penny stocks, highly speculative stocks valued at less than a dollar and taxed with an enormous amount of risk. For beginners, I suggest putting in at least 10% of your money into the stock market. 

While stocks are exciting, bonds cannot be overlooked. Though their short term earnings are less, they are steady, reliable, and secure, potentially providing maximum profit-risk ratio. Accumulating certain bonds, such as government bonds, is a precise and easy way to gain 6% to 7% interest on your money yearly. While bonds may not be the quickest way to get rich, they surely can offer the greatest reward in the long run. Thus, investing your money in bonds is something seriously to consider.

The rest of your money should go into a compound-interest savings account at a bank like American Express. This would allow for maximum future growth of your money, as interest accumulates with each deposit. Also, earning money from savings provides extra incentive to leave money in the bank for a long time instead of using it for unnecessary expenses. Overall, compound-interest accounts are reliable and over several decades, can make a small sum of money into much more. 

Wouldn’t it be nice to go to college debt-free? What about being able to pay for your first car? Following these three investment tips, you can gain savings and obtain a thorough understanding of money management by the time you are an adult. Don’t just leave it for your parents to handle. Be smart, and start now. 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
