---
layout: article
image: /img/BASISofSuccess.png
title: The BASIS of Success
excerpt: "BASIS has many stereotypes, but the image is not always accurate (For more information, please refer to Orwell’s Animal Farm). Many praise the concreteness of statistics and discount the validity of personal opinion when evaluating BASIS Scottsdale."
---

<h2>The BASIS of Success</h2>
<h4>By Aria Narang and Reyna Patel</h4>

BASIS has many stereotypes, but the image is not always accurate (For more information, please refer to Orwell’s Animal Farm). Many praise the concreteness of statistics and discount the validity of personal opinion when evaluating BASIS Scottsdale. During the past few weeks, collecting information from a spectrum of students at BASIS highlights differences between the naïve 5th graders’ and the sophisticated 10th graders’ answers. A few special insiders have volunteered to share their experience of BASIS Scottsdale. 

We first interviewed fifth graders regarding hallway conditions. All of the responses were negative. Fifth grader Ryan complains, “The hallways are small and crammed and people always stab me with pencils--it hurts.” Ryan’s classmate L.J. adds, “The hallways are small and squeezy and I rate them a -20/10.” Secondly, fifth graders compared BASIS Scottsdale to their previous school. The fifth graders had immediate answers for this question, and all definitely thought that BASIS was by far a better school than their previous school. Ryan says enthusiastically, “BASIS is way better than my old school. My school was very bad.” Our final topic was how the students felt about BASIS overall and what they would rate it. The fifth graders who were interviewed all had a very high rating for the overall view of BASIS. They all believed that it was the ideal school for any student. L.J. rates BASIS a 9 because she loves that she gets a longer lunch with more freedom and time to eat her favorite snacks. With the given information, we can conclude that the fifth graders are huge fans of BASIS, and they believe that it is a school much better than their previous schools. 

The tenth graders, having been embedded in the BASIS environment for much longer than the fifth graders, were also in favor of BASIS. Their answers cited different aspects of the many years they have been at BASIS and shined light on their feelings about the school. From the first question asked to them, it was clear that none of the tenth graders liked the hallways. 

From fifth grade to tenth grade, the tenth graders said that their perspectives on the hallways had never changed. Freshman Joey Peles explains, “The crowd in the hallways makes everyone late to class and creates chaos for everyone,” sophomore Vanessa Jones agrees with her classmate, noting that the hallways are compact and crowded. When asked to compare BASIS to a previously attended school, the high school students, like the fifth graders, all felt that their experiences at BASIS were far superior. 

“At my last school, I had one class about science. By that, I mean we spent one single day of class playing with magnets and never spoke about science again,” laments Vanessa Jones sarcastically. The other two students agreed with Vanessa that BASIS is better than any previous school. As an overall view of BASIS, the students rate it a 9 and two 8s out of 10. 

Though the students ended up giving us slightly different answers, they all showed us that they had an admirable view on BASIS Scottsdale. BASIS supports academic adventure, individual pursuits, and an encouraging environment. You may have thought that the opinions of the 5th graders would differ from the opinions of the 10th graders, but the interview proved that once you fall in love with BASIS Scottsdale you will always be in love with BASIS Scottsdale. As Oliver Wendell Homes says, “Where we love is home--home that our feet may leave, but not our hearts.”

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6> Finding a home in BASIS Scottsdale. </h6>
