---
layout: article
image: /img/3.png
title: Admin of Month - Ms. Finley
excerpt: "This month, I changed things up a little bit; instead of interviewing a teacher, I interviewed an administrator. Ms. Finley, the assistant program coordinator, took time out of her schedule filled to the brim helping the lower school children to talk to me a little bit about her November favorites."
---

<h2>￼Admin of Month - Ms. Finley</h2>
<h4>By Madison Waaler</h4>

This month, I changed things up a little bit; instead of interviewing a teacher, I interviewed an administrator. Ms. Finley, the assistant program coordinator, took time out of her schedule filled to the brim helping the lower school children to talk to me a little bit about her November favorites.

First, though, she told me a little bit about herself. Ms. Finley was born and raised in California, attending elementary, middle, and high school there. She grew up with two older brothers and a dog. For college, she went to DC, where she lived until she moved out here last year. Her favorite thing about the BASIS culture is that everyone is excited to learn. In an acute usage of epistrophe, she said, “It's really cool that people care. Kids care. Teachers care.”

Moving on to the focus of this month's issue: fall fun. Ms. Finley informed me that when she goes home for Thanksgiving—something required of her by her mother— her favorite thing to eat is her Aunt Carol's Mac ‘n’ Cheese. Ms. Finley—this is where she stole my heart— didn't want anything else on her plate with her Mac ‘n’ Cheese. Just straight up Mac ‘n’ Cheese.
Since she has been here for only a little over a year, Ms. Finley hasn't had much time to find out her favorite thing about fall in Arizona. Talking about this reminded her old favorite thing back in DC: the changing of the leaves. Green isn't really something we see here (the greenest I've seen is the fake grass of the BASIS school yard), and we see a whole lot less of red and yellow.

While she wasn't able to say something about her favorite of Arizona fall, she did know her favorite November beverage: apple cider. To me, there is no such thing as a Thanksgiving without some Martinelli's Sparkling Apple Cider, so hearing Ms. Finley tell me that she and her roommate appreciate its apple-y goodness as well reminded me that administrators are actually people, too. Shocking!

These were all the questions I got to ask Ms. Finley before she was pulled away to do her job, but I was so happy we got to talk. Often found in the lower school MPR and monitoring recess, Ms. Finley is always around to help.

If you see her, be sure to say hello and ask her about that Mac ‘n’ Cheese recipe. I'm very curious.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
