---
layout: article
image: /img/2.png
title: Alumna Spotlight
excerpt: "The BASIS Scottsdale that Aarthi Ganapathi remembers does not include fourth graders, sub-zero classrooms, literal traffic jams, or a lack of doorknobs. As a graduate from the Class of 2014, she remembers small hallways, different teachers, and a 'down' stairs."
---

<h2>￼Alumna Spotlight</h2>
<h4>By Nitya Aggarwal</h4>

The BASIS Scottsdale that Aarthi Ganapathi remembers does not include fourth graders, sub-zero classrooms, literal traffic jams, or a lack of doorknobs. As a graduate from the Class of 2014, she remembers small hallways, different teachers, and a “down” stairs. She is now a student at the University of California, Los Angeles, a place that doesn’t quite have “the same feeling” as BASIS. She said, “It’s very big, and you don’t know your teachers as well.”

She characterized her first few weeks at UCLA as “daunting.” She went on to say, “I was like, what am I doing? Should I have just gone to college in-state?” But Aarthi quickly began to “find [her] community.” She defined this notion of community as a group of people who share interests, passions, hobbies — groups that might not be able to form in a small high school just because there are fewer students. “No matter what you love, there’s a club for it,” she said. “There’s a lot of smaller communities, so it’s really easy to find yours.” Her advice? “Throw yourself into as many activities as you can.”

True to her advice, Aarthi has been throwing herself into life at UCLA. She joined a Chinese martial arts group and has performed many times.

She has also begun to teach younger students. “Last year, I went to teach middle schoolers about biology. We have a club here called InterAxon that focuses on teaching neuroscience and psychology to middle schoolers and high schoolers in the LA area. We’ll go in as guest lecturers. I got the chance to go to Venice High School, which was definitely fun, definitely a different experience—getting to go into a classroom of kids and discuss the brain,” she described.

This year, Aarthi will be a mentor. She’ll be going to a middle or high school and helping one or two students through not only their school work and college applications, but also their personal life.

Even with all her extracurriculars, she maintained her focus on school. “A lot of last year, though, was trying to get school work together.” She is ma joring in neuroscience, and she will be adding a minor in cognitive science because she’s “always been interested in the complex processes of our brains.”

But life at UCLA has not always been easy. Aarthi’s roommate situation last year was unique, to say the least. While many people have one or two or maybe three roommates, she had five. With so many people, tensions began to rise, and the situation eventually culminated in one of her roommates moving out. Not to fear, Aarthi is optimistic that her room this year can be more pleasant due to “better communication.”

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6>Supporters of the new campus wore this sticker at the city council meeting.</h6>
