---
layout: article
image: /img/3.jpg
title: Breaking at Berkeley
excerpt: "Resolved: The United States should adopt a carbon tax."
---

<h2>Breaking at Berkeley</h2>
<h4>By Varun Kukunoor</h4>

Resolved: The United States should adopt a carbon tax.

Students from around the nation debated this resolution in the Amazon Student Union at University of California, Berkeley. Although in a different state, the BASIS Scottsdale debate team repeated its usual stellar performance. All participants from BASIS Scottsdale— three Public Forum teams and one Lincoln-Douglas debater—were successful by having a positive or even win loss ratio. A few teams even broke to the elimination rounds.

Additionally, Abbas Haider and George Yang, two seniors from BASIS Scottsdale, were invited to participate in the round robin invitational prior to the tournament. The nation’s best debated in this round robin with climate change experts as judges, who could adequately evaluate the debated topic. George had a couple experiences to share.

Gazette: How did it feel to be invited to this exclusive event prior to the tournament?

George: I thoroughly enjoyed it. These events are the essence of debate because it’s just a brewing pot of some of the nation’s greatest minds and greatest arguments. At that point, sure you want to win, but it’s so interesting just to listen to everyone share their thoughts and ideas, and then debate in a really sophisticated way.

Gazette: What have you loved the most about Speech and Debate?

George: I love the community and family aspects. It doesn’t matter where you live. It doesn’t matter if you have met. If you are a debater, you are treated like family at tournaments. There is no feeling like it. Of course, it is still extremely competitive, but the friends I’ve made in all these different states make the event and experience unforgettable.

With this performance, BASIS Scottsdale has again affirmed its place as one of the top schools in the United States, in both academics and debate.
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6>BASIS Scottsdale debaters Jayden Soni, Abbas Haider, Eric Kim, George Yang, and Asha Mahajani (left to right) pose for a photo.</h6>
