---
layout: article
image: /img/2.png
title: Quiz Bowl - Club Spotlight
excerpt: "Do you have a passion for trivia? For competition? Have you ever wanted to jump into your TV screen while Jeopardy was on?"
---

<h2>Quiz Bowl - Club Spotlight</h2>
<h4>By Amy Schneider</h4>

Do you have a passion for trivia? For competition? Have you ever wanted to jump into your TV screen while Jeopardy was on? Well, you’re in luck. BASIS offers the closest club to real-life Jeopardy possible: quiz bowl!

What is quiz bowl and how does it work?

In quiz bowl, there are two opposing teams of four to five players and a moderator or two. The moderator reads off a question, which is either a long toss-up that anyone can answer or one of three consequent bonuses for the team that correctly answers the toss-up. If a person buzzes in and answers incorrectly, his or her teammates may no longer answer and the question becomes open only to those of the opposing team.

As for scoring, a toss-up is worth ten points and each following bonus question is worth ten points each as well. Additionally, if a player answers a question correctly before a certain marked point, then that player achieves what is called “power” and that player’s team receives fifteen points instead of ten. If a person answers incorrectly, then their team is “negged” five points. However, after an incorrect answer, the opposing team cannot be negged.

What kind of questions are there and what are they about?

The toss-ups range in topic from literature to history to geography to (only rarely) pop culture. Bonus questions also cover those types of topics, and the three questions are always related.

How do you study for such a competition?

Frequency lists, lists of terms, people, ideas, and events that appear frequently in Quiz bowl questions are available on the website for National Academic Quiz Tournaments (NAQT) as well as Quizlet and other study sites. On the NAQT site, there is a variety of lists available: the classic lists, such as literature and music, and the “You Gotta Know” lists, which contain more specific information ranging from “Napoleonic battles” to “North American rivers.”

Meetings are after school on Thursday. If you are interested talk to program coordinator Mr. Witz. And maybe you could train with the state’s best Quiz bowl team.

“Quiz bowl is a game in which two teams compete head-to-head to answer questions from all areas of knowledge,” says the NAQT website. But you know what, NAQT? Quiz bowl is so much more than that. Quiz bowl is the rush, the fascination, the joy of competition.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

