---
layout: article
image: /img/4.png
title: Back To Basis Blues 
excerpt: "It’s that time of the year again, the most dreaded season for any student: the beginning of the new school year. Although many wish for a perfect year at the bottom of their hearts, students rarely have such fortune."
---

<h2>Back To Basis Blues </h2>
<h4>By Esther Li-Chen</h4>

It’s that time of the year again, the most dreaded season for any student: the beginning of the new school year. Although many wish for a perfect year at the bottom of their hearts, students rarely have such fortune. The frigid air blasting from the BASIS vents is still uncomfortably freezing, the early morning traffic is still incredibly congested, the hallways are still nauseatingly claustrophobic, the school atmosphere still lacks promise for a better year. And the loud moans and groans from everyone shuffling from class to class do not exactly add much positive energy to the scene.

I interviewed some Upper School students to discern how they felt about coming back to school, and many responses were pessimistic. “I have crippling depression,” one student replied wearily. A different, slightly more positive student told me, “Friends are great; hours and hours of homework are not.” Another said, “My life is a garbage fire,” even though it had hardly been three full weeks into the school year.

Many may seem to be down in the dumps, but Mr. Carey, the biology teacher, has a more upbeat opinion about the new year, expressing his excitement “to try out some new strategies and labs I learned this summer.”

Listening to the lack of enthusiasm in so many students, we can only hope the 2017-2018 school year becomes more of a success as it progresses.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6>This year’s team looks to build on the success from last year.</h6>
