---
layout: article
image: /img/2.png
title: Inside The Business Insider
excerpt: "Not too long ago, the news that Business Insider was visiting BASIS Scottsdale spread through the crowded hallways of our school."
---

<h2>Inside The <em>Business Insider</em></h2>
<h4>By Fajr Ahmad</h4>

Not too long ago, the news that <em>Business Insider</em> was visiting BASIS Scottsdale spread through the crowded hallways of our school. Considering that <em>Business Insider</em> is a well-known international news site, it is no wonder that Senior Ditch Day was cancelled, teachers put on ties, and students’ eyes were peeled for cameras and crowds.

As a BASIS Ambassador, I was able to give a tour to the representative, Melia Robinson, and witness her work. Solely equipped with her PR assistant and a camera, she was pleasantly interested in students’ lives and seemed nostalgic of her own middle and high school days. Occasionally snapping a picture with her Nikon camera or asking one of us a question, Robinson explored the halls with Ms. Mitrovich and the Ambassadors as guides. The lights and camera crew that many students expected simply were not there; the experience was similar to giving a tour to the families of prospective students. Regardless, the curiosity in the air was tangible as students and teachers alike frequently glanced over at the representative of the world-famous website.

Later on in the day, she asked a couple of seniors a few questions over lunch. I had the opportunity to speak with some of them to gain insight into what exactly the conversations entailed.

<em>What were some of the questions that you were asked in your interview with the Business Insider representative?</em>

<strong>Madison Waaler:</strong> The questions were pretty standard. She asked about stress levels and how I managed them, some of the classes I was taking, and school life in general.

<strong>Eric Frankel:</strong> She asked why I came to BASIS and what public school I went to before. I told her that I chose BASIS because I appreciated its academic rigor and challenge.

<strong>Vanessa Jones:</strong> I was able to speak with the <em>Business Insider</em> reporter quite a bit, both during my college counseling class and my lunch period. It seemed like she wanted to know about the school’s vibe—are people competitive? Is the environment collaborative? What makes BASIS Scottsdale special? Why did we choose to enroll? What have our most positive experiences been? How are our relationships with teachers? Do we feel prepared for the future? What are we studying? From what she said, she was generally trying to understand how BASIS Scottsdale works.

From the interview questions and answers, it seems that the magazine wished to understand what makes BASIS the number one school in the nation.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
