---
layout: article
image: /img/3.png
title: The Mind Behind Basis Cross Country 
excerpt: "BASIS Scottsdale sports are back and better than ever. With the new cross country team starting its inaugural season with impressive results, it seems necessary to find out where this success stems from by interviewing the head coach and World History teacher, Mr. Wells."
---

<h2>The Mind Behind Basis Cross Country </h2>
<h4>By Tanay Vedartham</h4>

BASIS Scottsdale sports are back and better than ever. With the new cross country team starting its inaugural season with impressive results, it seems necessary to find out where this success stems from by interviewing the head coach and World History teacher, Mr. Wells.

<em>TV: So, it being the first year of BASIS cross country, what type of culture or atmosphere are you trying to establish within our community?</em>

JW: While the running, training, and competing are certainly important, they are only some aspects of wider goals. For BASIS cross country, I am trying to create a positive atmosphere of teamwork, athleticism, achievement, and character development. Cross country is a team sport, and runners learn to work as a unit, supporting and encouraging each other as the season progresses.

<em>TV: Practices are said to be physically grueling, but from a mental standpoint, how draining can cross country be? How do runners combat these difficulties?</em>

JW: First off, I am glad that cross country practices have such a stellar reputation! It is a grueling sport. Practices and races are tiring both mentally and physically, and I believe there is a certain sense of accomplishment that can only be felt after running four miles in one-hundred-and-eight-degree weather. To answer your question, the mentality of cross country is at least as important as the physical exercise. Athletes are expected to take their race times seriously, and the only way to improve is to put effort into each practice, working through physical pains, whether it be from running or from our core workouts. Telling yourself that your body can take the running is a learned skill, one that each cross country runner at BASIS is learning, whether or not they know it.

<em>TV: In the brief existence of the program, what are the some goals for this year?</em>

JW: My goals for this year are pretty simple. First, I want a team that grows as a unit, supporting each other and creating a positive community of runners (because those who run together, grow together). Second, I want a team that improves over time. This includes their times in the races as well as their attitude towards running. Winning medals and trophies is not nearly as important as building a community of improvement and positivity. Third, I want to use the first two goals to create a culture that can be used to continue building a successful program in the future.

<em>TV: Are there any specific runners or performances that you would like to shout out? And any words of advice for future runners?</em>

JW: All of our runners deserve mentioning for dedicating their time to running after school at the end of summer; however, there are a few runners I would like to mention. Lexi Zidel and Isabelle Hogan are leading an impressive women's team. Both girls have finished in the top five or six at each of our meets. Nishant Kannan is leading our men's team, consistently running less than seven-minute-mile splits for a 5k. Lastly, there are some students who deserve mentioning for building a positive community at practice, acting as team leaders and keeping practices fun, even when they are exhausted from practice. These athletes include Lexi Zidel, Alonzo Arambulo, Stephanie Madura, Sam Bloom, Adam Hoffmeister, Devon Harris, Millie Khosla, and Aran Flaherty.
  
Future runners who are interested in joining the cross country team should expect physically grueling practices and exciting competition. However, the team is much more than that: we are building a community of athletes who help each other build self-esteem, time management skills, teamwork, and athleticism.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

