---
layout: article
image: /img/1.png
title: "Interviewing Mr. Johnson "
excerpt: "Last week, I spoke with Mr. Johnson about any advice he may have for students interested in business. Being the BASIS Finance and Economics teacher, he shared some insight on the current business scene and his experience with finance."
caption: ""
---

<h2>￼Interviewing Mr. Johnson</h2>
<h4>By Zand Gorji</h4>

Last week, I spoke with Mr. Johnson about any advice he may have for students interested in business. Being the BASIS Finance and Economics teacher, he shared some insight on the current business scene and his experience with finance.

<em>BG: First off, what is your background in business?</em>
DJ: “I grew up in a small town in Saskatchewan, where agriculture was the primary industry. Business was built off of the agricultural community’s work ethic and done with a handshake. I’ve always driven to maintain that. A handshake seals the deal.”

<em>BG: Were you the first in the family to have a love for business and finance, or does it run in the family?</em>
DJ: “Entrepreneurship sort of runs in the family. My dad was a construction entrepreneur. But other than that, I was the first to explore business as a career.”
 
<em>BG: What has been your experience with stocks?</em>
DJ: “Most of it has come from my experience as a financial advisor, working with people on how to manage their portfolio. My personal philosophy is to buy mutual funds rather than stocks or bonds.”

<em>BG: What advice would you give teenagers with an interest in finance or business-related careers?</em>
DJ: ”Explore every options and try things out. Don't be afraid of failure in business. Many successful businesses were built on failure. Colonel Sanders, for example, was in his sixties when he finally succeeded in his KFC business. He didn't necessarily fail in business, but he didn't truly succeed until later on. In order to be successful, you need to start.”

<em>BG: Are there colleges that you think are best for those wishing to pursue a career in business?</em>
DJ: “My opinion is that the college you go to really doesn't matter. What matters is that you have the vision and the drive to succeed.”

<em>BG: What is one business opportunity that you missed out on in the past?</em>
DJ: “In 1998, a friend of mine who was a computer programer and I had come up with an idea for an online auction for farmers before he moved away to Michigan. We were going to call it e-farmer.com. It would have been sort of like Ebay. One of the reasons we were hesitant is that we didn't think that the agricultural community would adapt to technology like they have now. We had developed the website, but never moved beyond that stage after he moved away.”

<em>BG: For December, what stocks would you recommend to invest in?</em>
DJ: “Riot Blockchain. They’re like the blockchain and are in the digital currency system. With the rise of Bitcoin and other digital currency systems, they can take advantage of their position as a strategic investor and operator in blockchain investment. Roku is another one. They provide online streaming, so as people cut the cable cord subscriptions and move on to web streaming, we should see more growth there.”

<em>BG: Lastly, are there any clubs at school that students can get involved in that relate to business?</em>
DJ: “I am looking to begin a DECA club, which would give students the opportunity to be involved in state and national business competitions. DECA prepares emerging leaders and entrepreneurs for hospitality and management. The requirement to become a local DECA chapter is to have eleven students involved. Please look into the extracurricular offerings for information on how to join the club.”

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
