---
layout: article
image: /img/BASISofSuccess.png
title: The Switch
excerpt: "Leaving your home is hard enough; just imagine moving to a different country, plunging yourself into a new culture and language with novel sights and sounds. That is exactly what BASIS Scottsdale foreign exchange students Giorgia Bertolinaa, Jeesung Kim, and Sandra Li did, all for the sake of cultural immersion."
---

<h2>The Switch</h2>
<h4>By Anuka Upadhye</h4>

Leaving your home is hard enough; just imagine moving to a different country, plunging yourself into a new culture and language with novel sights and sounds. That is exactly what BASIS Scottsdale foreign exchange students Giorgia Bertolinaa, Jeesung Kim, and Sandra Li did, all for the sake of cultural immersion. After numerous tests and evaluations, the three students traveled to the United States—some for the first time—and settled down in Arizona. 

<b>Q- Giorgia, Jeesung, and Sandra, where are you from?</b> 
<i>Giorgia </i>- I am from Genova, Italy. <br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- I’m from Hong Xu, South Korea. <br>
<i>Sandra </i>- I’m from Guangzhou, China. 

<b>Q- What is your favorite and least favorite part of BASIS Scottsdale so far? </b> <br>
<i>Giorgia </i>- My favorite has to be my friends, and my least favorite is math class. Also the hallways, they’re really crowded. <br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- My favorite is the discourse, interaction, and debate between the teachers and students. My least favorite is that the school is really small. <br>
<i>Sandra </i>- My favorite is that BASIS is a small school, so we have a really good relationship with the teachers. When I was back in China it was a very large school, with over 5,000 people. My least favorite is the lunch periods, because we have to bring lunch from home. China’s lunch periods have hot lunch every single day. 

<b>Q- What is the hardest subject at BASIS, and who is your favorite teacher? </b> <br>
<i>Giorgia </i>- The hardest subject would be math, for sure. My favorite teacher is Dr. Helmers. He’s really funny. <br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- The hardest subject for me is AP U.S. History, and my favorite teacher is Mr. Atkinson.<br>
<i>Sandra </i>- My hardest subjects in BASIS are Honors Language and Honors Literature because I don’t really do these types of things in China. My favorite teacher is Dr. Scaling, because she is really kind and friendly, and I enjoy chemistry. 

<b>Q- If you could tell America one interesting thing about the culture of your country, then what would it be?</b><br> 
<i>Giorgia </i>- Definitely that food is amazing. Everything is good about the food: the pizza, the pasta. I would tell the American Italian restaurants that they stink. <br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- I really admire the use of public transportation in Korea; I wish there was better facilities here. <br>
<i>Sandra </i>- Here, boys and girls have very close relationships with each other, but back in China the teachers enforce that boys and girls should not interact in school. If you are caught talking with a specific boy a lot, the teacher will keep an eye on you and even talk to your parents. 

<b>Q- What has been your strangest or funniest experience in America so far? </b><br>
<i>Giorgia </i>- The boys. But they’re weird everywhere. I also really like the landscape of America.<br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- Last year, after finishing my international student orientation, I was flying out of New York to Virginia. I was awful at English. I didn’t realize that the announcer was calling my name for boarding time, because I didn’t realize that the flight was boarding. I was just aimlessly sitting on the chair, and I could have missed the flight. <br>
<i>Sandra </i>- The funniest thing over in America is how you can make jokes or laugh about anything. Sometimes I don’t really understand what you all are talking about, but I’m always curious to ask. 

<b>Q- How do people in your country who have never been to America imagine it?</b><br>  
<i>Giorgia </i>- They think it’s like the movies. A big, generic city with underground (subway) in it. <br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- They think every American possesses a gun or weapon, and they think everywhere in America is city, but it’s actually different. <br>
<i>Sandra </i>- For example, my parents, who have never been to America, think that everything here is a busy, bustling city. But not everything is! America’s entire stereotype comes from the East Coast like New York, Washington D.C., and Boston, but it’s not like that everywhere. 

<b>Q- What do you miss most about your country? </b><br>
<i>Giorgia </i>- The food. And also my family. <br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- Korean food. And my family too. <br>
<i>Sandra </i>- The food! I’ve never had American food for a long amount of time. 

<b>Q- What’s your favorite American food that you never had tried before? </b><br>
<i>Giorgia </i>- Hamburgers. And Oreos. <br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- I like American Chinese food. It’s Americanized, but it’s different, and I like the different flavors. <br>
<i>Sandra </i>- I don’t what it’s called, but it’s a soup with onions. Oh yeah! French onion soup. My host family makes it all the time, and it’s very delicious.

<b>Q- If you could describe America in three words, then what would they be? </b><br>
<i>Giorgia </i>- Big, hot, and full of adventure. <br>
<i>Jeesung </i>- Active, full of opportunity, and pizza.<br>
<i>Sandra </i>- Busy, diverse, and developed. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6>Welcome (left to right) Giorgia Bertolinaa, Jeesung Kim, and Sandra Li</h6>
