---
layout: article
image: /img/1.png
title: Out with the Old: Dying Basis Trends? 
excerpt: "A familiar face is back at BASIS Scottsdale doing what he does best: teaching physics."
---

<h2>Out with the Old: Dying Basis Trends?</h2>
<h4>By Nikola Djurisic</h4>

BASIS  is a unique school with unique trends. Many are reprehensible, and most are oddly charming. As the school year begins, we can only imagine what new trends will unfold. Let’s take a quick look back at some of last year’s trends, appreciating the old while excitedly anticipating the new.

<strong>The Mini-Dab</strong><br/>
While “dabbing” was a trend across the entire United States, Mr. Wells claims that he “only ever saw the mini-dab performed at BASIS Scottsdale.” The dab, made with the thumb and index finger, was performed so often and so vigorously that it quickly became one of the longest-lasting trends in BASIS Scottsdale’s very distinctive history. It remains to this day.

<strong>Bottle Flipping</strong><br/>
Even the bottle flipping plague infected BASIS Scottsdale’s students. Reports first surged in of Lower School students attempting the maneuver, then Upper Schoolers, and eventually even teachers and staff members joined in (Ms. Gordon famously succeeded on her first try). Soon, everybody was trying it, every day. Some even went to extreme measures. For instance, a student flipped a bottle onto a support beam of the second floor, where it remained for most of the school year.

<strong>Four Square</strong><br/>
With the new campus came new opportunities to go outside and have fun. Four square was a popular game among students of all ages, being one of the only possible games the space outside could foster. Many famous tournaments occurred on the sacred ground just next to the stairwell. A more inclusive version, nine square, helped spread the game’s popularity across the entire BASIS student body.

So what will it be this year? Unfortunately, we can only wait patiently for the 2017-2018 school year’s trends to reveal themselves.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
