---
layout: article
image: /img/1.png
title: Model UN - Club of the Month
excerpt: "The Model United Nations (MUN) club is all about international diplomacy and policymaking. The club meets every other week to prepare students to attend large Model UN conferences with delegates from many high schools."
---

<h2>Model UN: Club of the Month</h2>
<h4>By Trey Connelly</h4>

The Model United Nations (MUN) club is all about international diplomacy and policymaking. The club meets every other week to prepare students to attend large Model UN conferences with delegates from many high schools.

Sergio Carvallo, General Secretary and founding member of BASIS MUN, has been attending conferences for three years. “Model UN facilitates problem solving in a world and internat ional context ,” he said in an interview. “It’s a simulation of the actual United Nations which seeks to solve a plethora of issues ranging from droughts to international crises. By joining model UN, you also have an opportunit y to gain a better understanding of the structures, cultures, and dynamics of your represented country.

“At the conference, delegates are assigned to a committee where they give speeches and discuss possible solutions in an effort to pass a resolution. It’s not like debate in which one person wins an argument; instead, one must aim to build consensus among the delegates.

As far as my personal experience goes, trying to participate can be very nerve wracking at first, but you soon realize that most people there are trying to reach a common solut ion. There’s no pressure to ‘win’ the conference; just talk to and work with the other delegates and you’ll do fine.”

Before each conference, students in the club choose a country to represent and then create and submit two policy papers and one resolution. The policy papers are a summary of his or her committee’s issues, ensuring that each delegate is knowledgeable about the topics at hand. The resolution is a draft of a possible solution for the problem the committee faces, giving the delegate experience in policy-making and forming a starting point for the drafting of a resolution at the conference. Club officers help new members draft their papers so that everyone can attend the conferences.

Each year BASIS Scottsdale has sent delegates to at least three conferences around the state. BASIS has finished in the top three schools at every conference, and delegates have won awards ranging from best policy paper to best diplomat. This year, the club is aiming to broaden its horizons by attending a larger regional.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6>This year’s Model U.N. team looks to build on the accomplishments of their predecessors.</h6>
