---
layout: article
image: /img/1.png
title: "Senior Living"
excerpt: "Everyone thinks that senior year is some laid-back fantasy lifestyle at BASIS. Well, newsflash! It’s not. Seniors are still slaving away like every other student in the school. "
caption: ""
---

<h2>￼Senior Living</h2>
<h4>By Raj Watson</h4>

Everyone thinks that senior year is some laid-back fantasy lifestyle at BASIS. Well, newsflash! It’s not. Seniors are still slaving away like every other student in the school. Classes are still as tough as ever, such as research-based humanities courses like Capstone Nazi Germany History and Literary Theory requiring intense amounts of reading and writing. On top of these classes, the college application process is unsurprisingly challenging. Applying to colleges may seem enjoyable at first, but when deadlines start approaching, it can—and will—get stressful. Plus, the senior research project doesn’t just start in the third trimester. Seniors must reach out to possible sites by mid-September. And don’t even mention the kids who have AP Research, who actually have to worry about the College Board evaluating their projects. Overall, think of Senior Year as a regular year at BASIS, plus the stress of applying to colleges and preparing an AP Research or senior research project.

Week after week, College Counseling poses a threat to seniors’ sleeping schedules and social lives. Drafting personal statements, outlining scholarship essays, filling out letter of recommendation forms, or whatever it may be, College Counseling has easily become the most work-intensive class of the year. In a recent interview, we asked some seniors to use one word to describe their senior year. One student noted that senior year is “surprising,” while another said, “overwhelming.”

On October 15th, UNC Chapel Hill and Georgia Tech kick off the college application season. Schools with deadlines soon afterwards include the University of Virginia, Duke, Northwestern, George Washington, and Tulane. In the rush to meet these deadlines, Naviance and the Common App have easily become the most visited websites on the seniors’ computers, with Ms. Mitrovich continuously reminding them to update their application profiles. Although the seniors have a difficult struggle ahead of them, senior year would be nothing to look forward to if it weren’t for the graduation ceremony, only seven months away.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
