---
layout: article
image: /img/Science_National_Honor_Society.png
title: Science National Honor Society
excerpt: "This school year heralds the development and continuation of a variety of honor societies, both new and old. From NHS to Art to French to Spanish Honor Societies, BASIS students and staff have seemingly left no stone unturned in involving their peers in a spectrum of service activities."
---

<h2>Science National Honor Society</h2>
<h4>By Jayati Sharma</h4>

This school year heralds the development and continuation of a variety of honor societies, both new and old. From NHS to Art to French to Spanish Honor Societies, BASIS students and staff have seemingly left no stone unturned in involving their peers in a spectrum of service activities. 

Here to join the list of BASIS Scottsdale’s Honor Societies is the school’s chapter of the Science National Honor Society, whose aim is to encourage scientific thought and communication within the scientific community, through volunteerism and service projects directed towards increasing public awareness of the state of affairs in the local and global field of science.

The overarching purpose of the BASIS Scottsdale chapter of the Science National Honor Society  (SNHS) is to advance students’ conscious involvement within the school’s science community beyond the classroom. The activities organized by the society will offer students the opportunity to substantiate the academic knowledge they receive from the BASIS Curriculum with activities geared at providing them with real-world experiences in the field of science. 

SNHS plans to be involved in the organization of the BASIS Scottsdale Science fair, the maintenance the school’s Monarch Waystation, and inviting guest speakers in the science field to speak to both Upper and Lower School students alike about recent and upcoming developments in their field of study. The society is also looking into avenues to host the schools’ first-ever Hackathon among other science-related events. 

Though only in its first year of operation, SNHS aims to organize a variety of events to connect BASIS students to the scientific scene throughout the community. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
