---
layout: article
image: /img/2.png
title: To Dance Or Not To Dance? 
excerpt: "As both the Fall Dance and trimester finals draw closer, we will be faced with the ultimate decision: to dance or not to dance? Our friends, our enemies, and even our teachers will be dancing in the Lower School MPR on October 28th."
---

<h2>To Dance Or Not To Dance?</h2>
<h4>By Nitya Aggarwal and Anya Wahal</h4>

As both the Fall Dance and trimester finals draw closer, we will be faced with the ultimate decision: to dance or not to dance? Our friends, our enemies, and even our teachers will be dancing in the Lower School MPR on October 28th. We must decide if we want to join the excitement or stay home, attached to our computer screens and comfy blankets. To help you choose your side, we’ve compiled a list of pros and cons.

<strong>To Dance</strong>

Take a break from all that homework. You deserve it! Be social, for once. Never heard of it? That’s okay: you’ll figure it out along the way. This way, you won’t be alone with your parents and a bowl of ice cream.

Your squad can take cool pictures for Instagram, and what’s not to love about getting tagged in a bunch of pictures? Also, when you’re sixty-five, you might have some memories to look back on that aren’t only ones of working hard all of the time.

Your money will not go to waste. Our wonderful student-led organization, Leadership, will use your ticket money to make future events like Prom successful.

If funding Leadership events doesn’t persuade you, it’s a good thing that ticket money gets you an all- access pass to a table of junk food!

Dancing with your friends is only half of the excitement. The pre-dance shopping spree, the makeover, and the cheesy Snapchat looks are all part of the package. This means more friend time, and (if your friends are as great as ours) more happy time.

Even if your friends don’t make you happy, at least you’ll be entertained watching teachers slowly go insane as they’re forced to supervise you and your friends repeatedly trip over each other’s feet on the dance floor. They’ll also be dressed up in fancy suits and outfits, and that’s cool, too.  

<strong>Not To Dance</strong>

Dances take up hours of your precious time. You could be studying. We don’t do fun around here.

Even though you’ve already committed three hours to actual dancing, you also have to brainstorm outfit ideas, go shopping, pay for that tie, and get ready.

Not only do dances and dressing up cut into your focused test prep time, but the tickets are also pretty expensive. Twenty-five dollars is a lot for three hours in the Lower School cafeteria. 

Those three hours are jam-packed, too: drama always, always goes down at dances. And you could be in the thick of it!

The drama will only provide so much entertainment. You’ll probably get bored, especially if your friends aren’t going. And if your friends are going, what if they have dates and you don’t? You’re probably going to get ditched.

Imagine your friends have ditched you and you’re awkwardly hanging out near the food table and pretending to have a purpose. What’s the only thing that could make that worse? A teacher seeing that awkward struggle?  

Don’t worry! Now that we’ve laid out the pros and cons, your decision will be a lot easier. Whether you’re a social butterfly or an introvert, dances are for everyone. They make a community of people—people you know and people you can get to know better. And while you may grow tired of them from time to time (you have spent years with them, after all), they’re your friends. At the very least, they’re people you can have fun with. Netflix at home can happen any day, but the memories you make at dances are one of a kind. By the end of it, even the teacher chaperones will be having a good time.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6></h6>
