---
layout: article
image: /img/1.png
title: "Basis Scottsdale’s New Cross Country Team"
excerpt: "The best school across the country now has its own cross country team? That's right! BASIS students are known to go the extra mile, so why not? Meeting every Tuesday and Thursday after school from 4:00 to 5:30 p.m., over thirty Upper School students work hard to prepare for a long season ahead of them."
---

<h2>￼Basis Scottsdale’s New Cross Country Team </h2>
<h4>By Bailey Mirmelli</h4>
The best school across the country now has its own cross country team? That's right! BASIS students are known to go the extra mile, so why not? Meeting every Tuesday and Thursday after school from 4:00 to 5:30 p.m., over thirty Upper School students work hard to prepare for a long season ahead of them.

Unfortunately for them, this season is situated during the hottest months of the school year. Having to practice outdoors, BASIS Scottsdale’s cross country team must brave over-one-hundred-degree heat for an entire one hour and thirty minutes, two times a week. Now, that is dedication!

According to BASIS senior Lexi Zidel, ardent track star and founder of the team, the high temperatures have greatly concerned Mr. Wells, the team’s faculty advisor and coach. “Lately, we’ve had to run around the perimeter of the school, because he doesn’t want us being too far, if something were to happen,” she recounts. At the hottest point of the afternoon, even the most athletic team members have felt the pain that comes with such intense heat.

However, despite the discomfort felt in these first couple of practices, BASIS Scottsdale's cross country team continues to go strong, prepping for various meets scheduled throughout September to November. The team makes its debut in Tucson on September 9th as a Division Two team, competing with other BASIS high schools, such as BASIS Phoenix and BASIS Peoria. Among the four planned meets is the Arizona AIA State Championships, taking place on Saturday, November 4th.

The new BASIS sports team is enthusiastic about its exciting year full of hard work and competition. They know that, in the end, the sunburns, sweat, and muscle pains will all be worth it.
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6>Cross country team members gather after school to run.</h6>
