---
layout: article
image: /img/3.png
title: The Death of Yule Ball
excerpt: "It’s official. Two of our dances, those awkward events that force us to socialize and try to dance, have been cast into oblivion, leaving us with two more nights to study in the year."
---

<h2>The Death of Yule Ball</h2>
<h4>By Raj Watson</h4>

It’s official. Two of our dances, those awkward events that force us to socialize and try to dance, have been cast into oblivion, leaving us with two more nights to study in the year. Typically, we have at least four dances per year: Prom, Homecoming, Yule Ball, and Sadie Hawkins. According to various members, Tri-M will not be sponsoring any BASIS dance going forward. Unfortunately, since are both hosted by Tri-M, Yule Ball and Sadie’s will no longer occur in their traditional form. Yule Ball has had a long history dating back to the old campus, but the tradition has been broken; it will be sad to see it go, at least for this year.

Nevertheless, rumors have been floating around the hallways of BASIS that Sadie’s and Yule Ball will be reincarnated to fill the desperately empty social lives of BASIS students. According to senior Suni Li, member of Mandarin Honors Society, this year will feature a Winter Formal instead of a Yule Ball. Currently, it is set to occur on Friday, December 15 from 6:30 to 9:00 in the Lower School cafeteria. As for Sadie’s, rumor has it that it may be adopted by She’s the First. However, it has yet to be confirmed, according to Secretary Aneri Tanna. Sadie Hawkins seems a fitting dance for She’s the First to sponsor; girls are expected to ask the guys rather than the other way around. Still, it is unconfirmed that the dance will happen.

Despite the end of the Yule Ball and Sadie Hawkins Dance, this year will still at least have one dance before Prom to look forward to. While the Winter Formal may not be what you expected, hopefully it will serve as an enjoyable start to our much-deserved holiday break.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

