---
layout: article
image: /img/12.jpg
title: New Teacher of the Month: Ms. Odens!
excerpt: "This month, I met Ms. Odens outside in the parking lot as she worked tirelessly in the heat, holding the stop sign and corralling our hopelessly-lost parents. "
---

<h2>New Teacher of the Month: Ms. Odens!</h2>
<h4>By Madison Waaler</h4>

This month, I met Ms. Odens outside in the parking lot as she worked tirelessly in the heat, holding the stop sign and corralling our hopelessly-lost parents. She is a native of Scottsdale and has stayed here her entire life— born in Scottsdale, went to Kiva Elementary, Mohave Middle School, Saguaro High School, and University of Arizona. Part of a split family, Ms. Odens is one of six siblings. We upper-schoolers have a hard time sharing our three bathrooms in our gigantic school with the other grades...imagine having to share a house with five other humans! She has three brothers, one older sister, and one younger sister not to mention her two white labs, Marley and Cleo.

Ms. Odens is a fourth grade LET, so she gets to learn a little bit of each subject. She also gets to teach the special class — a class unique to BASIS — Connections, which is meant to foster creativity. Her job is tough, but she “adores” her fourth graders. “They keep me on my toes!” she says.

As everyone knows, there is one thing universally loved by students of all ages and teachers — Netflix. Ms. Odens, just like the rest of us, has been swallowed by this beast. “Netflix is my nightly addiction,” she reported to me. Her current binge show is House. When she gets home after a long day of wrangling fourth graders, she slips on her fuzzy socks, gets some pasta, bread, cheese, or peanut butter-filled pretzels, and turns on her show. What a dream!

Finally, since it is October, I got the chance to ask Ms. Oden a bit about her Halloween experiences. For those new to BASIS, we have an amazing opportunity to wear our costumes to school on Halloween day (on a Monday this year), and some other costumes on the other days of Spirit Week. Ms. Odens reminisced a bit about her favorite Halloween costumes and said that her favorite costume, easily, was a Cinderella costume she wore when she was 6. Ms. Odens said she hadn’t quite decided what she was wearing this year, so be sure to keep an eye out!

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6>Ms. Odens poses with her students.</h6>