---
layout: article
image: /img/Dessert_Anyone.png
title: Dessert, Anyone?
excerpt: "For all you dessert lovers out there, there is good news! Thanksgiving is arriving quickly, heralding in a procession of pies—which means desserts galore! Here’s a mouthwatering list of the top Thanksgiving desserts of 2015."
---

<h2>Dessert, Anyone?</h2>
<h4>By Anuka Upadhye and Anyalee Wahal</h4>

For all you dessert lovers out there, there is good news! Thanksgiving is arriving quickly, heralding in a procession of pies—which means desserts galore! Here’s a mouthwatering list of the top Thanksgiving desserts of 2015: 

Happy eating!

1.	Key Lime Pie: Aahhh...the perfect blend of sweet and salty. At Le Grande Orange in Phoenix, you can find key lime pies, baked to tart perfection. 

2.	Red Velvet Cupcakes: Red velvet has achieved cult-like status among dessert aficionados. Tammie Coe Cupcakes are some of the finest. Le Grande Orange also has a pretty decent red velvet cake, but the bitesize cupcakes from Tammie Coe have just the right ratio of cake to frosting. 
 
3.	Lemon Cranberry Pie Bars: For hipster dessert lovers, lemon cranberry pie bars are the new fad. Sweet yet tangy and easy to make, they are even more delicious to eat. 

4.	Salted Caramel Cheesecake: Although salted caramel cheesecake has been a recent development in the caramel industry, its popularity did not take long to spread everywhere. With a little caramel and maybe a little powdered sugar on top, this cheesecake is the ultimate delicacy. 

5.	Macaron Cake: This is an easy do-it-yourself project. Buy some macarons, and stack them in a pyramid shape. Here in Arizona, you can always get delicious macarons from Essence Bakery. Fun for family, fun for friends!

6.	Butter Pecan Ice Cream Pie: We all know what is the go-to ice cream place. That’s right—Sweet Republic. The Scottsdale ice cream shop switches up their seasonal ice cream pies, but butter pecan is an all-year favorite.

7.	Bundt Cakes: Bundt Cakes, Bundt Cakes, of course. A classic that never falls out of favor. At Nothing Bundt Cakes, you can buy Bundt cakes of all kinds: red velvet, lemon, vanilla, chocolate. And if that is not enough decadence for you, you can always add a dollop of vanilla ice cream on top! 

8.	Bread Pudding: Another Thanksgiving Classic. A little bread pudding plus some ice cream on top equals bliss. Here in Scottsdale you can always visit The Mission to snack on this customer favorite.

9.	Blueberry Pie: A little, latticed crust; gooey, sweet filling: that’s right, the blueberry pie is back, and maybe to stay for good. At Pie Snob in Phoenix, for those who are a little burnt on the classic blueberry pie, variations such as blueberry lime or even blueberry piña colada reignite the taste buds. Otherwise, plop some old-fashioned vanilla ice cream on the warm pie slice, sit back, and enjoy the delicious ride. 

10.	Pumpkin Pie: With either sighs of relief or disappointed eye-rolls that this classic made it on the list, you know that no list of Thanksgiving pies would be complete without this old standby. The seasonal pumpkin flavor arrives with a bang every year. Enthusiastic bakers have no problem whipping up one of these come November, but for those of us who don’t have a cooking ‘thumb,’ Piefection in Mesa delivers the classic every year. Maybe you’re one of those people who aren’t a fan of pumpkin pie, but like to follow the tradition. Piefection’s mini-pies suit those who know the balance between too much and too little. 

Every year, these desserts tempt our taste buds with delectable satisfaction. Grab some silverware and save room for dessert this Thanksgiving. Trust me, after this, I know you will be coming back for our upcoming article, “How to Reverse Holiday Weight Gain.” 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
