---
layout: article
image: /img/nostalgia.jpg
title: Nostalgia Revisited
excerpt: "You’re seven again, or eight, or ten, or twelve—but those details don't matter. What does matter is the cartridge grasped in your second-third-fourth-grader hands. It is clunky and inelegant against today’s standards, but a marvel nonetheless."
---

<h2>Nostalgia Revisited</h2>
<h4>By Molly Ono</h4>

You’re seven again, or eight, or ten, or twelve—but those details don't matter. What does matter is the cartridge grasped in your second-third-fourth-grader hands. It is clunky and inelegant against today’s standards, but a marvel nonetheless. It will carry you through a world in which you are the main character, where your journey is the cornerstone for each pixel running across your screen. You simultaneously become the worshipped (in the game) and worshipper (of the game), and soon the only thing flooding your days and your thoughts is either Pokemon’s Ruby (or Sapphire, depending on your level of taste) or the intense separation anxiety onset precipitated by such trivial matters as school. 

Now older, you believe that you’ve moved on to bigger and better things, more enthralling, more sophisticated, more mature--but who are you kidding. These sacred games still elicit a thrilling sense of collective exhilaration through all the players that have been under the spell of the undying creed (“Gotta catch ‘em all!”), so much so that a fan base spanning generations can take up arms faster than should be possible. And it is, without a doubt, this dedication and patriotism that Nintendo targets with the November 21st release of Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, reboots of the original Ruby and Sapphire, with the flavor and look of a hungrier and more contemporary company. Gone are the charmingly simple pixilated landscapes of Hoenn, replaced by the “3-D” graphics introduced in Black and White back in 2011 that seem to draw out a unanimous, but not unbearable discomfort during game play, which is only exacerbated by the 3DS console (which is the only console compatible with the new games). Despite these drawbacks, the promise of actual flight atop a pokémon and of “mega-evolutions”—aptly named upgrades of pre-existing evolutionary pathways for the less-than-aptly named upgraded games—still exist as temptations even for the most fastidious of Pokémon epicureans. 

Ultimately, whether these new editions will live up to their predecessors remains to be seen. With the new graphics and additions to game play, they certainly have a good buzz, and not a small amount of blogs, media outlets, and big-name retailers have been hyping the ever-loving life out of it. However, Omega and Alpha stand not only on the shoulders of giants, but on the wonder and wanderlust of childhood memories; to sustain this nostalgia will be their definitive test. At the very least, the excitement of cradling the new game should not only extract notions of a simpler time and a more innocent and naïve world, but emphasize the disparity between past and present: you are a different person, this is a different game, and this is a different world, but still there remain semblances of the uncomplicated and painless haze that dwells exclusively in the minds of children. And you can almost taste it again, just barely. And so you slot the game into the player, and feel a familiar rush. If only glancingly, you are seven again. 

<hr style="color:black; border-width:2px; border-color:black; margin: 0px; margin-top: 30px; padding-bottom: 10px;">
