---
layout: article
title: Books, Anyone?
excerpt: "“Speak friend, and enter.” -Lord of the Rings "
---

<h2>Books, Anyone?</h2>
<h4>By Nitya Aggarwal and Anyalee Wahal</h4>

“Speak friend, and enter.” -Lord of the Rings 

Whether you’re a dedicated member of a fandom or just an all-around book lover, we welcome you to our little slice of fangirl insanity. For those of you who are just as crazy as we are and spent your summer attached to a library’s worth of books, here is a few of the summer’s best that you may have missed. For all of you who have decided that books are not for you and summer is not for reading, how do you function?  Honestly, we do not get it. Please, teach us your ways. We would get way more sleep. 

Top Summer Reads 

1.	<i>Go Set a Watchman</i> by Harper Lee

Rating: 3.5/5

When we heard Harper Lee had come out with a sequel, we were ready to drop everything and read it. While many people raved, critics had their doubts. We cannot deny Harper Lee always swore she’d never write a sequel, and critics say it reads a lot like a first draft of To Kill A Mockingbird. Sigh. 


2.	<i>Red Queen</i> by Victoria Aveyard

Rating: 4.5/5

While some find this book as stereotypical, others place it in the category of “Oh my gosh, it’s so good!” The love triangle honestly was not as annoying as most, and we think it was done pretty well. 


3.	<i>I Was Here</i> by Gayle Forman 

Rating: 4/5

A dark and emotionally haunting piece, this novel displays the aftereffects of suicide in a very real way—no one saw it coming, and everyone blames themselves. 


4.	<i>The Girl on the Train</i> by Paula Hawkins

Rating: 3.5/5

A thriller version of Gone Girl, none of the characters in this book can be trusted, not even the narrators. It made for a very interesting read, and the plot twist was insane. 


5.	<i>P.S. I Still Love You </i>by Jenny Hankins 

Rating: 4/5

Well, it wasn’t as good as the first book To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before, but Jenny Han knows how to make you fall in love with her characters. They are so cute!


6.	<i>Saint Anything </i>by Sarah Dessen 

Rating: 4.5/5

I know, I know, everyone says Sarah Dessen books are all the same, but they are all really good, and this one has a bit less romance and a bit more real life. It really captures the feeling of living in a sibling’s shadow.


7.	<i>A Court of Roses and Thorns </i>by Sarah J. Maas

Rating: 4.5/5

If you love a story about romance, danger, mystical creatures, and a brave heroine, we suggest this book. It’s not one you’ll want to miss, and you will likely enjoy it.


8.	<i>The Heir</i> by Kiera Cass

Rating: 4/5

I must admit, I am not the biggest fan of The Selection series, but this one has fairly good ratings. We have not read it yet, but it is definitely on our to-do list. 


Book of the Month: <i>Island of the Blue Dolphins </i>by Scott O’Dell

Rating: 4/5

In the Pacific Ocean lies an island shaped like a giant fish. It’s called Island of the Blue Dolphins, and it was inhabited by Native Americans. Until they left, that is. And when they did, they accidentally left behind one of their own—a young girl named Karana and her brother Ramo, leaving the two to fend for themselves. This book is based on the true story of a woman who had to live alone on an island for 20 years. All alone. By herself. The book was an inspiring and empowering, if not sad, read and won a Newberry Award. I shed more than a few tears when I read it, although my fourth-grade-self was way too excited to go get stranded on an island afterwards. Nevertheless, if you have not read it yet, then we highly suggest you do so, even if it is a children’s novel.


<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
