---
layout: article
title: The Most Important Holiday
excerpt: "Every year, in late November, one of the northernmost nations, a country ruled by a government of the people and for the people comes together to celebrate its good fortune."
---

<h2>The Most Important Holiday of November</h2>
<h4>By Brian Glucksman</h4>

Every year, in late November, one of the northernmost nations, a country ruled by a government of the people and for the people comes together to celebrate its good fortune. On that day, we revere the triumph of the pioneers of a new nation, despite facing both a long history of oppressions from an evil empire and the longest odds of success. Ever since the formation of this exceptional nation, this autumnal holiday has been venerated as one of the most hallowed holidays, as the preeminent display of nationalistic pride. Here is a guide to two of the greatest holiday traditions for oblivious readers. 

Early in the morning, in the nation’s largest city, children and adults alike flock together to watch the parade. Featuring soldiers from all four branches of the military and  musical talents, such as Marija Naumova, the parade is a both a  show and a reminder of what has made the country great. As the parade marches through the roads, the country’s diversity and strength are as evident as ever. 

And what kind of holiday would this be without a feast?  Ever year, families from all over this diverse nation dine together. Celebrating traditional delicacies, like sulku pudins, the meal features enough piquant food to last for days. However, while it is true that everyone enjoys the meal, the real beauty of the dinner is that families spend time together. Overcoming both partisan differences and physical separation, relatives gather together to appreciate all they have to be thankful for. 

November is a time of change. As the leaves turn, the red-and-white striped flags unfurl to celebrate Latvian Independence Day on November 18. Like every other nation, Latvia has a day of national pride and a belief that their nation is the best. However, we Americans tend to ignore other cultures. The least we can do is join together and celebrate Latvia for one day. 

<hr style="color:black; border-width:2px; border-color:black; margin: 0px; margin-top: 30px; padding-bottom: 10px;">

