---
layout: article
image: /img/12.png
title: Fragile House of Cards
excerpt: "Cardinals fans after the first week of the season, “We are going to win the Super Bowl!” Carson Palmer is going to lead the league in passing yards and win MVP."
---

<h2>Fragile House of Cards</h2>
<h4>By Raj Watson</h4>

Cardinals fans after the first week of the season, “We are going to win the Super Bowl!” Carson Palmer is going to lead the league in passing yards and win MVP.

After week 3, most fans were distraught. 1-2? We suck!! Coach Arians needs to get rid of our long-snapper. He is literally a walking garbage can! We’re not even going to make the playoffs.

All right, Cardinals, listen up. I’m going to say this once and once only. Y ou’re playing pathet ically. The Minnesota Vikings are better than you guys, and they don’t even have Adrian Peterson (it’s not like he was doing anything anyways). The entire Cardinals fan base is #triggered by the joke of a long snapper named Kameron Canaday. We need him gone as soon as possible! Also, Carson, what in the world are you doing out there? We need you to get off to a good start, not throw for only 55 yards in the first half of a game. It is just beyond me how the Arizona Cardinals had five straight 3-and-outs to start the Buffalo game. A faster start is imperative for this team since it is difficult to come back from any 30-7 deficit. And 4 interceptions Palmer, you need to do better!

Anyway, back to explaining why the Bird Gang is playing like complete garbage. The defense against the Bills was atrocious. We let a little mouse by the name of LeSean

McCoy shred our elite defense for over 100 yards. Our D-line needs to get to the quarterback early and often so that the opposing QB rushes and throws it into coverage where we then pick it off (I’m looking at you, defensive coordinator James Bettcher. You need to get your act together and start calling the right plays for our defense because at the moment you’re not doing your job correctly). Pat-Pete, keep doing what you want to do, keep making insane catches. Boy, you are a beast. Same with you, David Johnson. Keep leading this team and great things will come. Oh, don’t think I forgot about you, Dave Zastudil, since you have have been cut, excuse me “reached an injury settlement.” Yeah, I see you -- don’t try to hide. Why are you even in the game with an ankle injury, just limp off the field and have Palmer hold the PAT? The whole world knew that the ball wouldn’t make it to Catanzaro’s foot after what happened at the end of Week 1. I started laughing hysterically at you when you hobbled to get the ball when it sailed over your head.

Cardinals, we could resurrect 53 dead memes to play on our team and they could probably have beat you. Starting at cornerback, Dat Boi. With his unicycle, he can keep up with any receiver and snatch the ball right out of the air. At quarterback, traded from Cincinnati, Harambe the Gorilla.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
