---
layout: article
title: School Supplies
excerpt: "Similar to the recycling of fashion styles over the decades—something I learned after unwittingly borrowing my friend’s mom’s shirt—the popularity of school supplies also ebbs and flows."
---

<h2>School Supplies</h2>
<h4>By Eve Fabre</h4>

Similar to the recycling of fashion styles over the decades—something I learned after unwittingly borrowing my friend’s mom’s shirt—the popularity of school supplies also ebbs and flows. Although BASIS Scottsdale may not have as intense of a “fashion radar” as other schools, fashion still dictates certain preferences for our essential academic accouterments. To go back to school in style, you must know which trends are in and which are out.

<b>Pencil Cases:</b>

These little pouches can pack a big punch (style-wise). A handy (literally) outlet for creativity, a pencil case can advertise every student’s individuality.  This year, floral prints dominate almost every female student’s desks. However, wacky designs and geometric shapes are co-ed favorites. The famous monster zipper pencil case epitomizes the unisex trend—I even saw a striped, four-limbed, one-eyed monster case the other day in Spanish. Then there are those who rebel against any fashion statement: the half attempted, Ziploc pencil case, which can be viewed alternatively as the ultimate in utilitarianism or a sophisticated post-postmodernist critique of materialism.


<b>Folders and CJs: </b>

Look at the desks on either side of you—accordion folders are making a comeback. Easily portable, they can handle more than a trimester’s worth of handouts for those classes that do not require a binder. Fewer binders lessen the weight that we have to haul daily. It is a win-win! 

As far as school supplies go, CJs remain the old standbys. The difference between our official school CJs and other store-bought planners is simply a matter of personal preference. CJs as always perennially “hot”—a lesson everyone learns by losing the precious scrap of paper used to scribble down upcoming tests and homework.


<b>Backpacks: </b>

Backpacks share a lot in common with pencil cases. Simple and sturdy does the trick, but many students would rather show off something with a little spunk to it. Crisp sailor stripes and lacy, flowery themes have been “hot” for the last couple years, but solid colors have held their own, probably ever since I was in the 5th grade. One can never go wrong with an old classic. 

There is, however, one type of backpack that will never be in style, will never be welcomed, and will never be tolerated. It does not matter who you are, what grade you are in, what school you go to. Rolling backpacks truly deserve a place in hell. Does BASIS Scottsdale’s five-foot-wide hallway, cramped with students, who almost overflow into adjacent hallways, seriously look like an airport terminal to you? 


<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

