---
layout: article
image: /img/14.jpg
title: Fall TV
excerpt: "Looking for new shows to procrastinate the hours of homework that will end up being done at lunch? Well do not fret; the answer is in here."
---

<h2>Fall TV</h2>
<h4>By Frida Guzman</h4>

Looking for new shows to procrastinate the hours of homework that will end up being done at lunch? Well do not fret; the answer is in here. Not in any particular order, the list starts with,

ATLANTA
<i>Premiere Date: September 6, 2016</i>
One no longer has to “wonder why Gambino got the game locked” since <i>Atlanta</i> is both created by and starring Donald Glover, the quadruple threat (comedian, actor, writer, and of course rapper). This show displays two young cousins on their quest to finding stardom in the Atlanta rap scene to improve their family’s lives.

Divorce
<i>Premiere Date: October 9, 2016</i>
For all those <i>Sex and the City</i> fans, yup, that’s right: Sarah Jessica Parker is on your living room screen once again, starring in the new HBO series <i>Divorce</i>, a show that focuses on a woman reassessing her life after the demise of her relationship.

Stranger Things
<i>Premiere Date: July 15, 2016</i>
The government is always hiding things, stranger things. Created by the Duffer Brothers, <i>Stranger Things</i> shows a mother’s struggle to find her child, a friend’s attempt to keep a secret, and a sheriff’s journey to find the truth.

Although new shows are great, older shows have more sesons to binge-watch. I compiled a list of excellent shows broadcasting new seasons.

HowtoGetAwaywithMurder
<i>Premiere Date: September 22, 2016</i>
On its third season, <i>How to Get Away with Murder</i> explores how a group of students helps a famous criminal defense attorney win her cases through somewhat illegal means.

Bob’s Burgers
<i>Premiere Date: September 25, 2016</i>
Starting its seventh season, <i>Bob’s Burgers</i> is an animated show that illustrates the typical American family with a twist by over-exaggerating each member’s character to emphasize the sort of generic nature of most families.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6> (Source: New York Times) </h6>
