---
layout: article
image: /img/yashipgirl.jpg
title: Fans and Fantasy
excerpt: "Recently, ESPN analyst Don Van Natta Jr. wrote a detailed report on the apparent decline in online fantasy gambling, citing lack of profits for the two largest fantasy gambling sites, DraftKings and FanDuel, as evidence that the fledgling industry is already dying."
---

<h2>Fans and Fantasy</h2>
<h4>Gursajan Gill</h4>

Recently, ESPN analyst Don Van Natta Jr. wrote a detailed report on the apparent decline in online fantasy gambling, citing lack of profits for the two largest fantasy gambling sites, DraftKings and FanDuel, as evidence that the fledgling industry is already dying.

However, a recent Fortune article rebutted these claims. Fortune writer Dan Primack shows that these online gambling sites are still booming. He explains that DraftKings and FanDuel are not turning profit margins because of extensive advertising expenses and previous debts. In fact, Dan Primack shows that the fantasy gambling industry is booming at an even quicker pace than before.

These recent stories have brought to light an important legal and ethical question: in spite of how successful the industry currently is, what is the legality behind fantasy gambling? Is it taking advantage of lax laws and loopholes?

To understand the legality behind this sort of gambling, it is important to understand how DraftKings and FanDuel work. On each website, one can choose to play multiple different fantasy sports. The most popular one obviously is football. Every week one enters a league by paying a certain amount of money. The entree fee from each player goes towards the overall league pot. Every athlete is assigned a certain dollar value, and the fantasy player has a certain budget to fill out all the spots on his roster.

During the game, points are awarded based on the athlete’s performance. By the end of the gameweek, the fantasy player with the most overall points from his roster wins the league, and takes the pot. After that, the league resets, and every player pays to enter another league.

Such leagues has become so popular that DraftKings and FanDuel are now both valued at more than $1 billion. They have become significant players in fantasy sports. At first glance, it may seem that these websites are highly illegal especially s ince online gambling is so heavily regulated by state governments. However, the interesting thing is that they do not label themselves as gambling sites.

Currently, there are layers of laws and regulations on online gambling. Online casinos and poker tables are strictly regulated by state law, and almost all states do not allow online gambling. On the other hand, fantasy “gambling” is illegal in only 11 states, including Arizona. The reason lies all in the definition of gambling.

DraftKings and FanDuel both cite the Unlawful Internet Gambling Act of 2006 (UIGA) to prove their legality. A clause from the UIGA states that gambling is defined to be a game defined on chance and risk — where luck, not skill is the only factor. The UIGA goes on to state that games that require skill and knowledge from the player can not be defined as gambling.

Fantasy betting sites argue that playing fantasy sports requires skill and expertise; therefore, they can not be qualified as gambling sites. After countless legal battles, DraftKings and FanDuel have both carved a niche and opened a loophole for themselves.

Neither of these sites is intentionally doing anything harmful. However, these sites have given many more people access to their services. Further, the age limit to play on DraftKings and FanDuel is 18 whereas on normal gambling sites, the age limit is 21. This shows that fantasy “gambling” has opened up the gates to millions of more players to become addicted to something very similar to gambling, potentially leading to an addiction to actual gambling according to some.Also, online gambling sites are strictly regulated. They are carefully monitored by state governments to ensure that there are no cheaters or impuls ive gamblers on the site. Online gambling websites are required to submit detailed reports of their earnings and how they run the ir website. However, DraftKings and FanDuel don’t need to stick to either of these rules.

In the end, it is clear to see that DraftKings and FanDuel are operating legally. The ethics and other aspects of fantasy gambling is a whole another topic that has to be addressed. Every day, millions of Americans log onto these sites and gamble away hundreds of millions of dollars. It is clear that there need to be more regulations and laws on this sort of “gambling.” These sites serve as a cautionary tale on the need for an updated, comprehensive law on online betting and gambling.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

