---
layout: article
image: /img/movies.jpg
title: Watch if you Dare
excerpt: "The all-around spookiness brought about by the month of October merits an analysis of the best (read, scariest) films to spend your Saturday night on."
---

<h2>Watch if you Dare</h2>
<h4>By Catherine O'Niell</h4>

The all-around spookiness brought about by the month of October merits an analysis of the best (read, scariest) films to spend your Saturday night on. The following are three of the scariest movies to watch this Halloween season:

<b> Scream (1996) </b>

<i> Scream </i> is a horror movie based on horror movies. This humorous satire makes fun of the slasher genre as a whole, while providing a truly suspenseful and terrifying thriller. In the fictional town of Woodsboro a killer is at large, wearing a plastic Ghostface mask and armed with a sharp blade. Sydney (Neve Campbell) is at the center of the story as she tries to stay alive. Any horror film lover will enjoy the multiple allusions to classic horror films, such as <i> Halloween </i> , while following the thrilling and enticing plot.

<b> Black Swan (2010) </b>

Natalie Portman stars as Nina, a ballet dancer set at perfection. This psychological thriller follows Nina as she reveals her inner darkness through striving to portray the Black Swan. Through intense hallucinations, Nina’s nightmare of a mother, and the characters’ disturbing habits, <i> Black Swan </i> illustrates a day in the mind of a dancer.   

<b> A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) </b>

Wes Craven’s <i> A Nightmare on Elm Street </i> blurs the line between dreams and reality. Freddy Krueger, a burn victim equipped with a sharp-clawed glove, haunts the dreams of four teenagers, one of whom is played by the young Johnny Depp. Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) soon realizes after the death of her best friends that the only way to keep this horrible monster at bay is to fight the urge to fall asleep. While the special effect may be mediocre as this was made in the 80s, the plot is captivating and chilling, elevating it into a horror classic. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
