---
layout: article
image: /img/jams.jpg
title: Jayden's Jams
excerpt: "From the first song on their fifth full-length album, it is clear that The Wonder Years have recorded yet another emotional rollercoaster. Debuting at No. 9 on the Billboard Album charts, No Closer to Heaven marks a continuation of singer Dan Campbell’s raw, autobiographical songwriting, but with a few new twists."
---

<h2><i>No Closer to Heaven</i></h2>
<h4>By Jayden Soni</h4>

From the first song on their fifth full-length album, it is clear that The Wonder Years have recorded yet another emotional rollercoaster. Debuting at No. 9 on the Billboard Album charts, No Closer to Heaven marks a continuation of singer Dan Campbell’s raw, autobiographical songwriting, but with a few new twists.

Though they have always been largely known for their straightforward yet moving lyrics, the band knocks it out of the park this time around. Campbell departs from a trilogy of albums dealing with personal struggles, primarily with depression. Spanning a more comprehensive array of subjects, the band also brings to the table a more developed sound, one still rooted in pop punk, but more complex and intricate.

The first track, “Brothers &,” consists of a minute and-a-half of musical buildup and a single line of lyrics: “We’re no saviors if we can’t save our brothers.” That theme continues into the second song, “Cardinals,” a regret-filled apology to a friend as Campbell sings, “So if you call me back or let me in, I swear I’ll never let you down again.”

The story comes to a close on powerful fifth track of the album, “Cigarettes and Saints.” Unfolding in three acts, it is revealed that the friend passed from a drug overdose. What starts as a somber but beautiful memorial, featuring church organs and quiet vocals, slowly builds up to a triumphant defiance as Campbell practically screams, “You can’t have my friends. You can’t have my brothers.”

Backtracking a bit, the third track on the album is the first of its two odes, “A Song For Patsy Cline.” In this song, as well as on the seventh track, “A Song For Ernest Hemingway,” Campbell compares his own writer’s block to the sense of impending doom that followed both figures leading up to their tragic deaths. Both songs pay homage in a very ominous but intriguing way.

For all its amazing lyrics, the album’s music deserves some spotlight as well. Track six, “The Bluest Things on Earth,” features a smooth, fittingly bluesy guitar break near the middle of the song, a pleasant surprise from Matt Brasch, Casey Cavaliere, and Nick Steinborn, the band’s three guitarists. A similar riff follows the chorus on the album’s eighth track, “Thanks for the Ride,” keeping it interesting alongside steady, driving power chords.

“Palm Reader,” the twelfth song on the album, features quiet, minimalist verses, with some interesting rhythms from drummer Nick Steinborn. Also prominent is a bass line that melodically bounces around from note to note, unconventional when it comes to pop punk but in some ways a return to Josh Martin’s jazz roots.

And, of course, there are Campbell’s vocals. Often bordering on yelling, he manages to mix just the right amount of pitch into his singing to balance raw emotion with musicality. For a song that exemplifies the singer’s classic sound, look no further than track four, “I Don’t Like Who I Was Then.” The tenth track, “I Wanted So Badly To Be Brave,” brings with it a similar feeling of nostalgia, briskly moving along at a tempo reminiscent of the band’s earlier work.

Beyond “Cigarettes and Saints,” the album’s ninth track, “Stained Glass Ceilings,” stands out as one of its best. Contrary to its complex lyrics, which tackle everything from death and religion to racism, inaction, and the American dream, the song is musically somewhat simple. It builds slowly from mellow verses into a powerful bridge, featuring the aggressive vocals of Jason Butler of letlive. 

In contrast, “You in January,” the eleventh track on the album opens with a soft music box. It is fitting for the sweet and genuine love song, bolstered by a sense of vulnerable realism, with the occasional moment of exaggeration as Campbell sings: “You were the one thing I got right.”

Finally, the album closes with the title track, “No Closer to Heaven.” Driven by the acoustic guitar and music box, Campbell ties the record together, bringing back Hemingway and elements from “Stained Glass Ceilings” as he wraps up his thoughts. Regardless of music taste or ideology, the raw emotion present throughout the album makes it well worth a listen.

Rating: 4.5 stars

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
