---
layout: article
title: Sniglets
excerpt: "Have you ever stumbled upon a scenario or object that isn’t defined by Merriam-Webster? Rich Hall certainly has. A popular actor and comedian in the 80s, Hall ingeniously discovered a solution to this pestering problem."
---

<h2>Sniglets</h2>
<h4>By Michelina Calo</h4>

Have you ever stumbled upon a scenario or object that isn’t defined by Merriam-Webster? Rich Hall certainly has. A popular actor and comedian in the 80s, Hall ingeniously discovered a solution to this pestering problem. His theory was simple: why not create your own word?  Hall then coined the term ‘sniglet’ and defined it as "any word that doesn't appear in the dictionary, but should.” Hall’s beloved sniglets became so much of a comedic sensation they were featured as a main skit on his hit comedy show on HBO, “Not Necessarily the News.” Sniglets provide a humorous twist to neologisms, and a relatable affiliation with those reading them. 

Who knows, if Merriam-Webster can slip the word earworm in their latest dictionary—the song or melody that repeats in one’s head—then maybe one of these sniglets is next.

Mistext (mɪs tɛkst) v. - Sending a text to the wrong person on your iPhone while texting with two people at the same time

Pseudogesture (ˈsudoʊ ˈʤɛsʧər ) n. - the familiar act of not knowing an answer in class but raising one's hand anyway (after determining that a sufficient number of other classmates have also raised their hands, therefore reducing the likelihood of actually being called on) just for the beloved participation points

Roadster-roaster (ˈroʊdstər ˈroʊstər) n.- The act of entering a vehicle that had been sitting out in the direct sun and immediately getting bombarded with an overbearing wave of heat

Omnischool (ˈɑmni skul) n.- An overwhelming feeling of slight depression and hopelessness that occurs seasonally at the end of summer when one becomes aware of the forthcoming school year

Mocksoon (mɑk sun) n. - A monsoon that appears to bring comfortable weather, but with a temperature still above one hundred degrees 

Toastigram (ˈtoʊəs ti græm) n. -The daring and always-regretful mistake of walking outside on the hot pavement with bare feet

Aeropalm (ˈɛroʊ pɑm) v. - Extending your arm out the moving car window and cupping your hand to catch the wind 

Malumdrious (mæl ʌm draɪ uz) adj. - When even customarily entertaining activities become humdrum when you have absolutely nothing to do over the summer 

Epihemocorp (ipiaɪ ˈhimoʊ kɔrp) adj. - Someone with very unflattering tan lines from a myriad of different swim suits and constant exposure to the sun 

Officemaximize (ˈɔfəs ˈmæksəˌmaɪz) v. - The routinely exciting act of buying an excess of school supplies
 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

