---
layout: article
image: /img/pants.png
title: It's a Small World After All, or Is it?
excerpt: "Have you heard the latest on social media? It’s all over for a steady couple, and it’s all because of a new girl, who has turned heads and won over hearts to become America’s most popular girl."
---

<h2>It's a Small World After All, or Is it?</h2>
<h4>By Lauren Appel</h4>

Have you heard the latest on social media? It’s all over for a steady couple, and it’s all because of a new girl, who has turned heads and won over hearts to become America’s most popular girl. The boho-chic, long-haired, and even longer-legged beauty’s name is Brandy Melville, and she already boasts almost two million followers on Instagram. 

Some of us here in Arizona might wonder who she is, but teenage girls on the East and West Coasts and Hawaii already are familiar with her beachy style. The number one up-trending teen retailer in the United States, according to research firm Piper Jeffray’s most recent semi-annual survey on teen spending habits, Brandy Melville symbolizes a recent seismic shift in teen taste, according to The Wall Street Journal. No longer wishing to be a walking advertisement with a name brand plastered on their T-shirt, teens now seek to express their personality by mixing and matching relaxed separates. Hence, most teen girls consider the prominent logos on those once-cool “A” chains—Abercrombie & Fitch, Aeropostale, and American Eagle Outfitters—to be as passé as flip phones. Abercrombie’s embarrassment is so acute that it has removed logos from its own clothes to try and win back the fickle teen consumers. 

Fashion-smart girls with smart phones flock to the eighteen Brandy Melville stores in the United States or, better yet, order online to stock up on the artfully distressed, loose layering collection, featuring slouchy sweaters, patterned high-waisted bottoms, cut-off denim shorts, off-the-shoulder graphic T-shirts, and delicate accessories, which they then don while snapping a selfie to post on Instagram. However, Brandy Melville’s style is not its most innovative feature. Indeed, the brand’s bohemian silhouette recalls similar styles at H&M and Zara. Just scroll through pictures of young celebrities at Coachella to see the familiar breezy, feminine vibe. 

How then can this fashion coup d’état be explained? Brandy Melville’s magnetism seems more a result of its marketing than its unique fashions. Its one-size-fits-all sizing policy is both a source of its popularity and criticism. Not even making the list of the top ten hottest teen brands in previous surveys, Brandy Melville’s skyrocketing rise to number one, even with its limited brick-and-mortar store footprint, invites inquiry into how its marketing strategy has mesmerized teen girls. Not only are all Brandy Melville clothing items notoriously labeled small or one-size-fits-all, each store’s display of eye-catching black-and-white signs proclaims: “One size fits most.” 

That blanket declaration begs the question, “Really?” In fact, Brandy Melville’s one-size-fits-all bottoms fit teen girls wearing the American size equivalent of 0, 1, 3, and 5; only a teen customer with a tiny waist, therefore, could shimmy into Brandy Melville’s skinny jeans. However, the Brandy girl, idealized in their Instagram account—thin, blonde, and white—does not reflect reality. While Brandy’s sizes do not correspond with statistics recording the true average size of American teen girls, to list those so-called “average” measurements would be just as damaging to girls who fall above and below the average as Brandy Melville’s one-size-fits-all policy. Moreover, Brandy Melville’s clichéd California surfer girl look seems to ignore the diverse ethnic identities of real California girls and of the general American population.

Latching on to this body dysmorphic statistical disparity, critics contend that Brandy Melville fuels eating disorders, like anorexia and bulimia, which already threaten the vulnerable self-image of teen girls, who are assaulted with impossibly perfect media images 24/7. 

On the other hand, Brandy Melville enthusiasts celebrate its sizing, touting its inclusiveness and convenience. Unlike the higher price tags of Abercrombie and Fitch, Brandy Melville’s reasonable prices—most items are under $40—appeal to teen girls, who do not feel discriminated against economically from participating in the trend. Because the brand reaches out to their target female teen consumers in the language of social media, it meshes perfectly with Millennials. Furthermore, most fans applaud the lack of sizes, citing enhanced shopping convenience. 

Supporters also assert that Brandy Melville girls are not just pawns, but participants, in the brand’s success. Twenty teenage girls from its Santa Monica store on 3rd Street act as the brand’s product research department, who are paid to brainstorm and select new styles, model the clothes for a photographer, and post on Instagram. Consequently, some of these individual teen girls have rose to popularity on Instagram; one girl named Alex Centomo has more than 200,000 followers. Hence, Brandy Melville launches entrepreneurial opportunities for these young women. 

Now that you know about Brandy Melville’s rise from a low-profile Italian clothing company’s sole store in Westwood next to UCLA in 2009 to a worldwide retailing phenomenon, you can log on to brandymelvilleusa.com to judge the trend for yourself. Alternatively, you can pop into a local PacSun store to see the clothes at the only Brandy Melville wholesaler in the U.S. 

Whether it is discrimination or fashion, Brandy Melville has made its mark in teen retailing. It’s up to you to decide what that mark means.

<hr style="color:black; border-width:2px; border-color:black; margin: 0px; margin-top: 30px; padding-bottom: 10px;">
