---
layout: article
image: /img/10.png
title: Neuromancer
excerpt: "From the opening sentence, a first-time reader of Neuromancer by William Gibson will most likely be confused and disoriented–confused from being thrown into a world of advanced technology in which principles have to be learned as one reads and disoriented because of Gibson’s choice to expand and to transform our perception of space."
---

<h2>Neuromancer</h2>
<h4>By Nichole Kyprianou</h4>

From the opening sentence, a first-time reader of Neuromancer by William Gibson will most likely be confused and disoriented–confused from being thrown into a world of advanced technology in which principles have to be learned as one reads and disoriented because of Gibson’s choice to expand and to transform our perception of space.

While the book is peppered with neologisms, it also follows the traditional novel structure that has a protagonist and a plot. Henry Dorsett Case is a computer hacker who gets involved with a murky organization that needs his skills to break into the computer systems of another agency. Case is our anti-hero: bold and cynical on the outside but at times deeply empathetic on the inside. The plot is based off of the schemes of an all-powerful organization with mysterious motives. In Gibson’s universe, artificial intelligences (AIs) have the capacity to be gods, and Case struggles to not become one of their pawns.

However, where the novel deviates from the tradition is not in its protagonist and plot, but from the reality Gibson creates. The space between places seems contracted and irrelevant. Case, through vague instructions, seems to hop from Japan to Turkey to Paris to the entire East Coast of the US (now one giant metropolis called BAMA) in an instant, using magnet trains or extremely fast planes. Perhaps the most important addition to this reality is cyberspace, also known as “the Matrix,” where computer hackers like Case hold real power. Journeys through cyber space are described as full of movement, speed, and color.

Technology has such a tight grasp in Gibson’s world that every character’s body is formed technologically. With implants or enhancements, each character’s perception is shaped by technology. Through Gibson’s ability to blur the lines between what is artificial and what is natural, Neuromancer presents an unsettling, exciting world that at once seems ludicrous yet recognizable.
 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

