---
layout: article
image: /img/10.png
title: Things Are About to Get Stranger 
excerpt: "Stranger Things took America by surprise when its first season aired on Netflix in July, 2016. With 18 Emmy nominations and a whopping 95% approval ratings from Rotten Tomatoes, the science fiction/horror TV series' first season focuses on the mysterious disappearance of Will Byers, a twelve-year-old who vanished on his way home from a friend's house."
---

<h2>Things Are About to Get Stranger</h2>
<h4>By Kobe Simon</h4>

Stranger Things took America by surprise when its first season aired on Netflix in July, 2016. With 18 Emmy nominations and a whopping 95% approval ratings from Rotten Tomatoes, the science fiction/horror TV series' first season focuses on the mysterious disappearance of Will Byers, a twelve-year-old who vanished on his way home from a friend's house. Set in November, 1983, in the fictional small town of Hawkins, Indiana, the show involves secret government agencies, unnerving supernatural forces, and a parallel dimension. The show's creators, the Duffer Brothers, were heavily influenced by ‘80s classic films such as E.T.: The Extraterrestrial and Alien. They also drew heavily on Stephen King’s horror films. For example, the friendship arc between the three main characters, Dustin, Lucas, and Mike, is reminiscent of his movie Stand By Me.

The final episode of the first season leaves its audience hanging with a perplexing disappearance, a dead character and other mysteries that have yet to be explained. However, Stranger Things expertly leaves its viewers satisfied, avoiding too many loose ends, wrapping up the numerous conundrums introduced at the beginning.

Stranger Things fans rejoiced when a second season of the show was confirmed to be released in October, 2017. A surprise Super Bowl trailer, although exciting, did not reveal too much in its thirty seconds (although a devout fanatic would conclude far-fetched theories from minuscule details such as the color of a character’s shirt). In late July, a longer trailer was made public; however, I will not go into detail for anyone who has not yet seen the show.

Official posters for Season Two depict Mike, Will, Dustin, and Lucas biking outside Hawkins city limits while an ominous, blood-red storm brews above them. Other posters mirror ‘80s classics such as Nightmare on Elm Street, The Running Man, and Alien. Also, character posters reveal new faces and plans for future seasons to come, to the excitement of many fans.

After a period of silence, Stranger Things is drowning its fans with content. However, besides the titles of upcoming episodes and few brief plot details slipped from the cast, the next season still remains a mystery. Meanwhile, the Stranger Things fan community explodes with a multitude of theories and speculations.

It's a great time to be a Stranger Things fan. If you haven't had a chance to watch its first season yet, I would highly suggest you do so soon. Season Two premieres on October 27th.

 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

