---
layout: article
image: /img/9.jpg
title: Today's Top 10 Trends
excerpt: "Pop culture is vast. It is hard to know which trends to follow if you want to be culturally relevant. Luckily, all over the internet are top 10 lists, which give you the highlights of a certain section of popculture."
---

<h2>Today's Top 10 Trends</h2>
<h4>By Amy Schneider</h4>

Pop culture is vast. It is hard to know which trends to follow if you want to be culturally relevant. Luckily, all over the internet are top 10 lists, which give you the highlights of a certain section of popculture. Here are the top ten top-ten lists that I am following.

1. Top 10 Celebrity Breakups

Celebs have been splitting up nonstop from J-Lo and Casper Smart to the beloved Brangelina.

2. Top 10 React Videos

Reaction vids have grown in popularity as of late. Instead of watching any videos for yourself, stick to the reaction videos.

3. Top 10 Random Uses for “Triggered”

There is no limit to the improper and irrelevant uses for
this suddenly popular word.

4. Top 10 Minecraft Videos

Thankfully, this amazingly and endlessly entertaining subgenre of LetsPlays has taken up a golden spot in the YouTube community.

5. Top 10 Donald Trump Jokes

With thousands of one-liners, references, and memes, Donald Trump jokes are always funny! They’re not getting old...Right?

6. Top 10 Fantasy Footballs

Glitter footballs, invisible footballs, unicorn footballs... What, that’s not how it works, you say? Darn.

7. Top 10 Seven Natural Wonders of the World 

These natural wonders will always be trending from the Grand Canyon to Mount Everest!

8. Top 10 Pokestops

I heard there’s a Charmander in the Holocaust museum.

9. Top 10 Pieces of Lint

This is self-explanatorily interesting.

10. Top 10 We’re-Running-Out-Of-Top-Ten-Topic Videos

Includes: “Top 10 Longest Plane Rides,” “Realistic Minecraft - Top 10 Best Episodes,” and “Black Ops 3 - Specialist Top 10 Kills of The Week #26” (Yes, you read that correctly, number 26).

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
