---
layout: article
image: /img/11.png
title: "Tricks for Getting Those Treats"
excerpt: "It’s October, and the spookiest night of the year approaches: Halloween! Naturally, everyone’s primary goal for Halloween is to get lots and lots of candy—fast. But what is the best way to achieve this goal?"
---

<h2>Book Review: The Alchemist </h2>
<h4>By Zakary Hori </h4>
It’s October, and the spookiest night of the year approaches: Halloween! Naturally, everyone’s primary goal for Halloween is to get lots and lots of candy—fast. But what is the best way to achieve this goal? Stealing from friends’ bags isn’t exactly the best (or most moral) way to get candy, and taking all of the candy from your own house isn’t the most exhilarating. Although chaos will surely occur during this frenzied night, with these tips, you can stay focused and win those full-sized chocolate bars.

<strong>1. Wear a great costume.</strong>

As you wait awkwardly at a stranger’s front door, anticipating his or her response to your costume may be intimidating. You certainly don’t want your neighbors to give you that stare: the stare of disappointment. So, wear a cool costume to ensure a streamlined visit. Try not to be that person who shows up dressed as a box.

<strong>2. Take a bigger bag.</strong>

Every Halloween, I tell myself to bring a bigger bag the next year: there’s never enough room. So, bring the biggest bag you can find—even backpacks work! Certainly, by the end of the night, your bag will be filled to the brim with candy (especially if you follow these tips), so always prepare to have more than you expect.

<strong>3. Avoid dark houses.</strong>

Unless the darkness adds to the house’s spooky decorations, you will most likely be waiting outside for an entire minute if you ring the doorbell to an under-lit house. Many people believe it is best to hit every house on the block, but unfortunately, dark houses are usually empty or filled with rude people who will never answer. To conserve your time, skip them and move on.

<strong>4. Use the golf cart strategy.</strong>

If your parents have a golf cart and are willing to drive it with you, why not take advantage of the opportunity? You may lose some good exercise during the night that you would otherwise get walking, biking, or sprinting, but you will be able to hit a lot more houses, especially in large neighborhoods. This technique is also very helpful when taking care of younger siblings, who can’t move as quickly from house to house.

<strong>5. Strategize your time.</strong>

Unfortunately, not everyone has an entire night to hit those houses. It may be Halloween, but BASIS teachers will surely assign homework or plan quizzes for the next day. Extracurricular events and curfews may also keep you from spending the night trick-or-treating. Remember the houses that offered full candy bars and that one person who gave out sodas last year and prioritize them. Avoid the people who sneak in toothbrushes (dentists shouldn’t be able to stop you from having fun!). Also, be sure to finish before ten o’clock. Sleepy, grumpy adults will not want to get out of bed to tell you that they are out of candy.

<strong>6. Pick the right candy.</strong>

Some people offer a plethora of candy. It’s important to pick the ones that you can enjoy. For example, depending on your preferences, a Reese’s Cup can be better than a slim 3 Musketeers, and a gigantic Almond Joy can be worse than a small pack of Smarties.

<strong>7. Be courteous.</strong>

Some people give more candy to kids who are respectful and appreciative. Of course, you should say “Trick or Treat!” and “Thank you!” every time you stop by a house. Don’t be one of those kids who waits silently and refuses to say anything. Be polite and social. After all, it may get you an extra candy or two in the end.
Halloween is a great night to stock up on sweets that may brighten your mundane schooldays at BASIS Scottsdale. Trust me: the boost in energy will certainly help to enliven your sometimes dull classes. Be safe and have a wonderful Halloween. Stay spooky!
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

