---
layout: article
image: /img/11.png
title: "Charity of the Month: Feed My Starving Children"
excerpt: "Before you turn the page scoffing at the word “poetry,” think about how you would feel if someone rolled his or her eyes at your passionate speeches about video games, sports, makeup, calculus, or whatever it may be."
---

<h2>Charity of the Month: Feed My Starving Children</h2>
<h4>By Bobby Yalam</h4>
Although community service extracurriculars are already beginning at BASIS, by January everyone will be scrambling to meet volunteering hour requirements. To avoid this unnecessary stress, knock out a few hours at a non-profit organization. “Charity of the Month” will expose readers to charities with unique missions that have both local and global impacts. Volunteering not only is a great asset for a high school or college résumé, but also allows anyone to help those with less. People in developing countries often lack necessities like clothing, shelter, food, and water, which are taken for granted in our community. However, through volunteering at various organizations, we can do our part in providing those vital items to those who need them. 

September’s Charity of the Month is Feed My Starving Children (FMSC), a nonprofit that packages and ships meals to malnourished children. Established in 1987, FMSC is a national organization with locations in Arizona, Illinois, and Minnesota. Since its inception, FMSC has shipped millions of meals to children in Indonesia, Kenya, El Salvador, and many other underdeveloped countries in Asia, Africa, South America, and eastern Europe. Many children in these areas live in extreme poverty, with parents who cannot support a large family, common in less developed countries due to a lack of contraceptive methods and education. As a result of family neglect and malnourishment, these children have weakened immune systems that make them vulnerable to numerous diseases. The FMSC meals, consisting of rice, soy, dried vegetables, and powdered nutrients, are designed to provide nutrients and satiation to counter the damaging health effects of malnourishment.

Beyond packaging and shipping meals, volunteers at FMSC can participate in mission trips to the countries the charity supports. On these trips, volunteers interact directly with the children who receive the meals. Also, to ensure that the communities do not become dependent on the United States’ support, volunteers teach the adults more advanced farming and meal-planning techniques to help them become self- sustaining. 

Considering that FMSC is a non-profit group, many are surprised that the organization can afford the ingredients and packaging supplies for the meals. The funds are collected from donations and the sale of products available for purchase at FMSC locations. Many of these items, such as pottery, tea, and jewelry, are produced in the developing countries that receive meal packages. For example, during the holiday season, women in Uganda repurpose the cardboard shipping boxes as heart-shaped ornaments, which are sold online and at FMSC locations. These products represent the codependent relationship between FMSC and the developing countries it supports. 

Even though malnourishment seems insignificant due to the constant availability of food in the United States, it can prevent the children affected from maximizing their future potential. To contribute to FMSC’s mission, go online to register for a meal- packing session. The short one-to-two-hour sessions do not require any previous skill: only a desire to help children in need. The communal environment at the FMSC packing center brings a relaxed feeling to the charity work that is invaluable to the children that benefit from it. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

