---
layout: article
image: /img/11.png
title: "The Ins and Outs of Online Shopping"
excerpt: "Although community service extracurriculars are already beginning at BASIS, by January everyone will be scrambling to meet volunteering hour requirements. To avoid this unnecessary stress, knock out a few hours at a non-profit organization. “Charity of the Month” will expose readers to charities with unique missions that have both local and global impacts."
---

<h2>The Ins and Outs of Online Shopping</h2>
<h4>By Amy Schneider</h4>
Novelty is universally liked, which is why business is based on buying. The power of purchasing coupled with the freshness of the new gives shopping its immense appeal. But shopping in person can be inconvenient and frustrating. Online shopping retains the appeal of the purchase, while also removing the nuisances that come with department stores and shopping malls.

Of course, online shopping comes with its dangers, too, from inaccurate sizes to unshipped orders. To avoid these predicaments, here are a few rules for shopping online:
<ol>
  <li>If it costs less than ten dollars and is bigger than a pair of socks, get out of there. Even if the product does show up (and the sale is not a complete scam), it’s likely that the product that is delivered will not be the same as the one depicted on the site.</li>
  <li>Searching for non-sponsored reviews and researching the brand’s background will reveal a lot about customer service, delivery options, and product quality. Without being there in person, hearing other people’s reviews is a great way to survey for land mines without actually stepping out into the field. </li>
  <li>Try to buy at least one item on its own to test the brand before investing a lot of time and money into a large purchase. 
</li>
  <li>Speaking of large purchases, make sure to read the purchasing and shipping policies carefully before confirming any orders--some online stores have no return policy, or one in which the purchaser must pay for the shipping both back and forth of a returned product. </li>  
</ol>
Happy Shopping!
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

