---
layout: article
image: /img/11.png
title: "Films to Frighten "
excerpt: "Horror has always been a popular genre of entertainment, from fables and fairy tales to feature- length films. But what is the reason for this trend?"
---

<h2>Films to Frighten </h2>
<h4>By Amy Schneider</h4>
Horror has always been a popular genre of entertainment, from fables and fairy tales to feature- length films. But what is the reason for this trend? 

The horror genre focuses on the fear that stems from the unknown. Of course, the originality of horror stories, having been written about death over the years, has withered away with time. Creating unique, fresh stories to scare is a challenge these days, because of the overwhelming number of pre-existing frights. That being said, here are my choices for the most successful horror movies in cinema history. 

<em>1. The Shining (1980)</em>

Although creepy little girls and fountains of blood are clichés today, they found their footing in horror history with <em>The Shining</em>. The subtle, haunting tone of the movie is set from its very first scene at the Overlook Hotel and stays steady right to the very end.

<em>2. It (2017)</em>

Stephen King’s creepy clown gets a refreshing reboot, with its unexpected dark moments and talented child actors, like Jaeden Lieberher and Finn Wolfhard. It follows a genuine plot with likeable characters and sinister twists at every turn. 

<em>3. The Babadook (2014)</em>

Relying on the building of an intense atmosphere rather than easy jumpscares for its horror element, <em>The Babadook </em>garners true fear from its viewers rather than instinctive flinching. Even better, repression, paranoia, and emotional displacement not only justify the characters’ actions, but also enhance the film’s meaning. 

<em>4. It Follows (2014)</em>

The plot follows a new idea entirely, with a virus-like demon at its core. The timelessness of the movie’s setting is carefully integrated, from the style of phones to the clothing design. Overall, <em>It Follows </em>turns its head away from the dullness of the teen indie horror genre and creates something new that’s sure to follow you in your nightmares. 

<em>5. May (2002)</em>

The sad beauty of <em>May</em> creates its chilling horror. Melding a fear of loneliness with psychological uncertainty, <em>May</em> takes its viewer through a whirlwind of gore, sympathy, and most of all, horror. 

<em>6. Alien (1979)</em>

This original sci-fi thriller reimagined horror in a new setting: space, the final frontier. 

<em>7. The Exorcist (1973)</em>

Being partially based on a true story, <em>The Exorcist</em> brings chills to its audience members’ spines with its haunting realism and religious ties. 

<em>8. Psycho (1960)</em>

Alfred Hitchcock’s <em>Psycho</em> broke the rules of filmmaking—literally. Despite his introduction of slight scandal, the popularity of his film outweighed the importance of adhering to the Production Code and gave the world of cinema a larger degree of freedom. Also, its famous shower scene is timeless, appearing in later films like <em>Sleepaway Camp</em> (1983) and <em>Final Destination</em> (2000). 

<em>9. The Silence of the Lambs (1991)</em>

Some of the most disturbing elements of humanity are embraced and fully fleshed out in this movie, giving its viewers a sense of fright and moral confusion. 

<em>10. Get Out (2017)</em>

By tackling a tough subject and revealing age-old fears that remain to the present, this film, written by half of <em>Key & Peele</em>, unites psychological and metaphorical horror with social commentary to create a masterpiece. 

 


<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

