---
layout: article
image: /img/11.png
title: "Quotes of the Month "
excerpt: "Although community service extracurriculars are already beginning at BASIS, by January everyone will be scrambling to meet volunteering hour requirements. To avoid this unnecessary stress, knock out a few hours at a non-profit organization. “Charity of the Month” will expose readers to charities with unique missions that have both local and global impacts."
---

<h2>Quotes of the Month</h2>
<h4>By Pooja Kolla</h4>
There are times when we all need inspiration; the first month of school is one of those times. Read and allow the following quotes to jog your mind and move your soul.

<blockquote>“Anger and hate against one we love steels our hearts, but contempt or pity leaves us silent and ashamed”<br/>—Edgar Rice Burroughs</blockquote>
Edgar Rice Burroughs, an American author, was best known for his adventurous novel Tarzan of the Apes. In addition to this book, Burroughs wrote twenty-five additional books about Tarzan, the son of an Englishman that left him to be raised by apes in Africa, and his beautiful wife, Jane. Another of one of his famous works is the Barsoom series, a fictional representation of life on Mars. Besides these two book series, he wrote forty-three other books of various genres, including science fiction, western, and historical.  

<blockquote>“Life is what we make it, always has been, always will be.” <br/>—Grandma Moses (Anna Mary Robertson)</blockquote>
Anna Mary Robertson, nicknamed Grandma Moses, was a painter, famous for her meticulous detail and nostalgic charm. Her evocative paintings most commonly depicted rural American life. Robertson began painting in her seventies, an old age to learn a new skill. She had her big break in 1938, when an art collector named Louis J. Caldor bought every single one of her paintings hanging in a modest local store. Shortly afterwards, her pictures were displayed inthe Museum of Modern Art in New York in an exhibition of unknown artists. 

<blockquote>“The impossible could not have happened, therefore the impossible must be possible in spite of appearances.”<br/>—Agatha Christie, <em>Murder on the Orient Express</em></blockquote>
Agatha Christie wrote <em>Mysterious Affair at Styles</em> in 1920, paving her way to become one of the most famous writers in history. Her works include mysteries such as <em>Murder at the Vicarage</em>, <em>Partners in Crime and Sad Cypress</em>. She was not only a well-renowned novelist, but also a noted playwright and romance author. 

<blockquote>"Gratitude is a quality similar to electricity; it must be produced and discharged and used up in order to exist at all." all."<br/>—William Faulkner</blockquote>
William Faulkner, a Nobel Prize and Pulitzer Prize winner, wrote novels, short stories, plays, poetry, essays, and screenplays. His most renowned pieces include <em>The Sound and the Fury</em>, <em>Light in August</em>, and “A Rose for Emily.” 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

