---
layout: article
image: /img/12.png
title: "The King’s Speech: Putting Thoughts Into Words"
excerpt: "Naturally, the first subject to tackle in a segment about philosophy is why a segment on philosophy is relevant. Hopefully, everyone is at least vaguely aware of the ancient Greek debate method named after Socrates, Thomas Aquinas’s medieval arguments for the existence of a god, and the 20th century’s theory of existentialism."
---

<h2>The King’s Speech: Putting Thoughts Into Words</h2>
<h4>By Caleb King</h4>

Naturally, the first subject to tackle in a segment about philosophy is why a segment on philosophy is relevant. Hopefully, everyone is at least vaguely aware of the ancient Greek debate method named after Socrates, Thomas Aquinas’s medieval arguments for the existence of a god, and the 20th century’s theory of existentialism. When you think of philosophy, classical questions such as “what is the meaning of life?” and “is there a god?” doubtlessly jump to mind. These questions can easily seem out-of-place in a bustling modern world, however; who has time to contemplate the overall meaning of life while working a 12-hour shift? Luckily for the study of philosophy and its students, the love of knowledge is much more than a series of obscure thought experiments and a history of antiquity.

Modern philosophy comes in four main categories: ontology, the study of existence; epistemology, the study of knowledge; ethics; and logic. Two to three hundred years ago, natural philosophy would also have been considered a main branch, but it has since grown into its own independent discipline: science. That’s right: science used to be a part of philosophy. Even today, the two fields are closely intertwined. After all, what is the goal of science? To explain everything in the universe so thoroughly that no one ever should need to ask “how?” Likewise, philosophy seeks to answer the question “why?” Put into their simplest questions, the four forms of philosophy are thus: “what is real;” “how do we know;” “what should we do;” “why are we sure?” When boiled down to these roots, the universal application of philosophy should become clear. 

 Logic is perhaps the most obviously practical branch of philosophy. Not only its own system of thinking, but also a standard to measure everything against, logic is the very core of both philosophy and thought in general. Logic has two main functions in philosophy: the critical task and the constructive task. The critical task is, at its most basic, to question all truth claims. This is where philosophical discourse can get a bit aggressive, since there is a fine line between refining an argument by removing errors and trying to prove that an argument is an error. All of philosophy is meant for compromise: two sides blend their good ideas to make a better one, with one side’s fallacies remedied by the other side’s strengths. When a debate becomes about disproving rather than improving, it is no longer philosophy. The constructive task is the refining step, where a newly error- free argument is enhanced and expanded upon. This is a long process, since the end result should not be one belief, but an entire belief system, providing the answer to every “why” question one can think of. Ultimately, the end goal should be not only an understanding of the world, but also an understanding of the self. 
 
On its face, philosophy is meant to discover truths about the world around you, about how the world works and why it works the way it does. As most students of philosophy learn through experience, however, is that self-discovery is just as important. Simply sitting down for ten minutes to determine what you deem most important, why you think the way you do, and if your thoughts have any hidden contradictions, is a surprisingly enlightening and fulfilling experience that philosophy as a whole seeks to facilitate. After all, how can people expect to understand what goes on outside of them when they cannot even understand what goes on inside their own heads? 

Philosophy is best experienced as a discourse, so it wouldn’t be in the true spirit of philosophy for me to do all the thinking. Thus, I’d like to leave off every column of mine with a thought experiment, to keep readers on their toes and to make sure they’re all following along. Here's a simple question that requires a lot of thought to answer for the first time: if you can’t use your senses to perceive something, can it exist? 
 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

