---
layout: article
image: /img/11.png
title: "Forecasting This Year’s Halloween Costume Trends "
excerpt: "As the hot temperature of 120 degrees slowly drops into a chilly 105, everyone is starting to feel the Halloween spirit. Stores packed with costumes open for this month only. Children (with a small mix of adults) rush in to become their new obsessions. "
---

<h2>Forecasting This Year’s Halloween Costume Trends </h2>
<h4>By Esther Li-Chen </h4>

As the hot temperature of 120 degrees slowly drops into a chilly 105, everyone is starting to feel the Halloween spirit. Stores packed with costumes open for this month only. Children (with a small mix of adults) rush in to become their new obsessions. 

Since <em>Spider-Man: Homecoming</em> received critical acclaim and box office success, Spider-Man costumes will be a big hit this year, despite how the full body costume may prove to be suffocating in the Arizona heat. Another popular outfit may come from the recently released movie <em>It</em>; Pennywises may soon flood your neighborhood. 

However, the best Halloween costumes are always the original ones, and though they may sometimes be confusing to your peers, you’ll have the pleasure of knowing that you aren’t dressed like thousands of other people. You have the chance to be whatever you want this season, so let your creativity run wild. Even simple ideas, like the Morton Salt girl, the Disneyland tourist, “The Son of Man,” or Three-Hole-Punched Jim from <em>The Office </em>can be appreciated. Basically, when you’re thinking of Halloween costumes, try to remember that Halloween is the time for fantasy and fun. Don’t let anyone—even me —deflate your holiday joy! 



<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

