---
layout: article
image: /img/10.png
title: Charity of The Month: Animal Guardian Network 
excerpt: "As the weather begins to cool (slightly) and the days become shorter, we all celebrate the arrival of autumn. From Halloween, to pumpkin-flavored treats, to football season, almost everyone has a particular aspect of fall that they appreciate. With good spirits in the air, many enjoy spreading their excitement through volunteering."
---

<h2>Charity of The Month: Animal Guardian Network </h2>
<h4>By Bobby Yalam</h4>

As the weather begins to cool (slightly) and the days become shorter, we all celebrate the arrival of autumn. From Halloween, to pumpkin-flavored treats, to football season, almost everyone has a particular aspect of fall that they appreciate. With good spirits in the air, many enjoy spreading their excitement through volunteering. This activity is a great way to give back while still enjoying the comfort of the season. 

A great place to volunteer at this autumn is an animal shelter, where you can do goods deeds in the company of adorable animals. These rescued creatures rely on volunteers to keep them happy and healthy. Even if your parents aren’t ready to adopt a pet, volunteering allows you to interact with friendly animals while making their lives easier. Although numerous shelters operate across the state, one notable animal rescue in Maricopa County is the Animal Guardian Network (AGN). 

AGN was founded in 2008 by Carrie Singer out of her love for all animals, especially dogs and horses. With her background in marketing and networking, Singer brought success to AGN through hosting fundraisers, donation drives, and communal care for pets of low-income families. Beyond caring for rescued animals, AGN’s mission includes providing care for senior or special-needs animals, advocating for animal rights, educating others about animal care, and inspiring compassion for all animals. The group refuses to give up on any rescue, regardless of illness, injury, or other specific needs. 

The network is a non-profit, relying on grants and donations to provide food and other necessities to its rescues. At their ranch in Cave Creek, volunteers help clean and maintain the property; walk, entertain, and care for rescue dogs; and interact with and care for their horses. Beyond AGN’s facility, volunteers can also help plan fundraising and donation events or collect supplies on the network's behalf. Singer attributes her organization’s continued success to the dedication of its selfless volunteers. 

To aid AGN in its inspiring work, visit animalguardiannetwork.org for more information. To reach the network, visit their ranch at 4815 E. Carefree Highway #108, Cave Creek, AZ 85331 or call at (623) 780-1604. The impact of your volunteering at a rescue shelter like AGN is truly invaluable, especially to the innocent animals that depend on it. 



 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

