---
layout: article
image: /img/11.png
title: "Poetry Through the Years"
excerpt: "Poetry has been around for centuries, since before the English language even existed. Unsurprisingly, with innovation and modernization, human life has significantly changed over these hundreds of years. So, what has changed about poetry?"
---

<h2>Poetry: Dead or Alive? </h2>
<h4>By Fajr Ahmad</h4>

Poetry has been around for centuries, since before the English language even existed. Unsurprisingly, with innovation and modernization, human life has significantly changed over these hundreds of years. So, what has changed about poetry? We will look at a few different areas—technology, personal experience, and contemporary events—to analyze poetry’s progress from the years before Edgar Allen Poe to the years of Rupi Kaur.

<strong>Technology:</strong> Literacy has been crucial ever since the invention of the printing press and numerous religious revivals. With the development of literacy came the importance of literature. People were used to reading lengthy works, such as the newspaper, the Bible, or political pamphlets. Nowadays, thanks to the Internet and social media, our attention spans have greatly decreased. To cater to these new trends, works of poetry have generally grown shorter, shrinking from pages upon pages to as little as four lines. Remember memorizing “The Raven” in Mr. Woods’s class? Or did you tuck the traumatic experience to the back of your brain like I did?  

<strong>Personal Experience:</strong> Referring to prior examples, Poe suffered greatly during his lifetime, demonstrated in his final words: “Lord, help my poor soul.” Yikes. He lost his wife, brother, and mother to tuberculosis and suffered financially throughout his life, setting the dark stage for his work. Rupi Kaur is a contemporary survivor of abuse; poetry became a platform for her to speak about her experiences. Personal experiences are always different, and generally change as time goes on—tuberculosis isn’t nearly as common as it used to be, thankfully.  

<strong>Contemporary Events:</strong> After taking years of history classes, I think we all know by now that almost every century was characterized by political instability and war. In the twenty-first century, we probably have notably less instability than there was centuries ago. Naturally, the problems and topics to write about have also changed. From what I have read, modern poems deal more with very dramatic, personal emotions, such as E.E. Cummings’ “Since Feeling is First,” while older pieces focus on specific events, advice, or people, such as Poe’s “Annabelle Lee.” Although there is a similarity regarding the human condition, emotion wasn’t too big in the olden days—families were disconnected and love marriages were rare. As a teenager who cries at least once a week about homework, I can say that emotions are pretty big now. 

It’s quite interesting to look at how one’s environment influences his or her mind. In my opinion, the more difficult or sorrowful experiences make for the best works. Taking what is broken about the world and turning it into something beautiful—not only for yourself but for others, as well—is part of the essence of writing, a constant throughout the years. And what makes poetry so special is that it carries this insight compactly and efficiently, digestible for the less eager readers out there. It’s easy to dismiss literature as meant for nothing but school assignments, but it’s so much more. It always has been.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

