---
layout: article
image: /img/women.jpg
title: Women to Watch 
excerpt: "The November 2016 Presidential election promises to be interesting with not one but two female candidates: Republican Carly Fiorina and Democrat Hillary Clinton. Below are brief backgrounds and key points about both political candidates."
---

<h2>Women to Watch</h2>
<h4>By Victoria Meyer and Zoë Mhungu</h4>

The November 2016 Presidential election promises to be interesting with not one but two female candidates: Republican Carly Fiorina and Democrat Hillary Clinton. Below are brief backgrounds and key points about both political candidates.

With her former positions as first lady, U.S. senator, and U.S. secretary of state, Hillary Clinton is not a newcomer to the political spotlight. Her platform centers on improving life for middle-class America. Three avenues in which she hopes to accomplish her vision are clean energy, affordable college education, and economic growth. In order to make America a leading nation for renewable energy, Clinton plans to facilitate the installation of over a half- billion solar panels during her first term and to produce enough renewable energy to power every U.S. home within ten years of her first term. 

To ensure affordable college education, Clinton’s New College Compact promises that students can be debt-free after four years at a public university; funding for the plan comes from family contribution, student contribution from working ten hours a week, and tax revenue from high-income tax brackets. Lastly, Clinton will tackle economic growth by raising the minimum wage to $12 an hour and promoting investment in infrastructure and scientific research. 

Carly Fiorina was Hewlett-Packard's CEO--the first woman to take control of a Fortune 100 company. For five years, Fortune crowned Fiorina the “Most Powerful Woman in American Business.” However, over the past decade, she has shifted her career toward politics, hoping to use her business background during her presidential candidacy. 

Fiorina focuses on global warming innovation, high school restructuring, and less economic regulation to create prosperous lives for all Americans. While she believes that climate change is a reality--unlike some of her competitors--Fiorina also believes the issue is beyond the U.S. government’s control. She states that, because of coal markets such as those in China, the United States alone cannot stop the impact of climate change. She proposes innovating clean coal technology to combat global warming without burdening economic growth. 

Regarding education, Fiorina believes that free community college will not solve the issue of failing high schools. She intends to make high schools more competitive so parents have options in deciding which school their children will attend. Finally, fixing the economy is Fiorina’s main objective. She strongly supports decreasing taxes overall, not just for one group of individuals, to ensure economic growth for all. She also asserts that the minimum wage should be decided on a state basis because economic conditions vary from state to state.

Regardless of whether or not one supports either of these candidates, it is groundbreaking to have two female contenders in this historically male-dominated election.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
