---
layout: article
image: /img/Internet.jpg
title: And Internet for All 
excerpt: "For more than half of the world’s people, Internet access promises something more substantial than cat videos or Kardashian gossip."
---

<h2>And Internet for All</h2>
<h4>By Lauren Appel</h4>

For more than half of the world’s people, Internet access promises something more substantial than cat videos or Kardashian gossip. 

In fact, the next time someone chides you that Facebook is a waste of time, you can shoot back that the Internet is “an enabler of human rights” and a “force for peace”— at least according to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s speech at the 70th Session of the United Nations General Assembly on September 26, 2015. With his universal connectivity crusade, Zuckerberg intends to alleviate world poverty. 

Announcing his mission to bring the Internet to the whole world and to partner with the United Nations (UN) to provide Internet service to refugee camps, Zuckerberg emphasized that connectivity is crucial to achieve the seventeen Sustainable Development Goals recently adopted by the UN, according to CNN Money. Specifically, the UN, through Goal 9, commits itself to augment access to information and communications technology (ICT) and to provide universal and affordable Internet service in the least developed countries by 2020. 

In a keynote address, Zuckerberg encouraged leaders of government and business at the UN Private Sector Forum to foster support for universal Internet coverage as a means to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030. Working with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Zuckerberg spoke at a UN luncheon to pitch his plan that Internet access will allow refugees to better find and receive aid and to keep in touch with family, according to NBCNews.  

In a Facebook post before his speech, CNN Money reports that Zuckerberg shared his dream to make universal Internet connectivity a “global priority” so that “by giving people access to the tools, knowledge, and opportunities of the Internet, we can give a voice to the voiceless and power to the powerless.”

On the same day as Zuckerberg’s UN speech, The New York Times published an editorial entitled “To Unite the Earth, Connect It,” co-authored by Zuckerberg and U2 lead singer Bono to unveil their “Connectivity Declaration.” As part of Bono’s antipoverty, non-profit ONE Foundation, the proposal highlights that Internet connectivity is the key to realizing sustainable development in developing nations. To do this, the editorial urges governments to extend electricity and Internet access and calls upon Silicon Valley to take on more responsibility to alleviate the plight of the impoverished, especially “those beyond or on the edge of the network.” 

Conceding that there is “no simple solution or silicon bullet,” the editorial stresses the link between “global development and global connectivity.” 

Signatories to the Declaration, according to International Business Times, include Microsoft founder Bill Gates, physicist Stephen Hawking, entrepreneur Richard Branson, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales, and editor Arianna Huffington.

Aspiring to be a global leader in connecting the world, Zuckerberg told the UN that universal Internet access is “one of the fundamental challenges of our generation,” as reported by CNN Money. 

While approximately one billion people use Facebook, much of the world lacks Internet access. According to World Bank data, almost five billion of the earth’s population of seven billion people does not have Internet access, with the lowest rates in Eritrea (0.8 percent connected), Timor-Leste (0.9 percent connected), and Myanmar (1.1 percent connected). For comparison, 19 percent lack Internet access in the United States, according to CNN Money. A 2015 UN Broadband Commission report documents that 57 percent of the world remain unconnected, including 90 percent of the 48 poorest countries. At the other end of the connectivity spectrum, the Republic of Korea enjoys the world’s highest household broadband access at 98.5 percent, followed by Qatar (98 percent) and Saudi Arabia (94 percent). 

The UN recognizes that the digital divide must be bridged in order to realize the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda. 

In this regard, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon addressed the critical role played by data in his Solution Summit, according to a UN press release, stressing that decision-making depends on data, but “whole groups of people are not being counted,” because they are not connected. Cellular phones and computers can provide that data. 

Speaking at the UN, Zuckerberg characterized connectivity as a human right—a position he first proposed in 2013 with the launch of his initiative, Internet.org. Recently rebranded as Free Basics on September 24, this free mobile app offers websites and services to introduce users to the Internet by providing limited access to selected sites and services. Working with local mobile phone providers, Facebook targets people in remote developing areas. However, The New York Times reports that opponents have denounced Internet.org because its ‘walled garden model’ violates Net neutrality (the belief that all Internet sites and services must be equally accessible).

To further implement Zuckerberg’s far-reaching goals, Facebook is building drones to send Wi-Fi connections to places lacking access. One such drone—as large as an airplane and powered by solar energy—stood on prominent display in the courtyard of the UN General Assembly building, according to The New York Times. The Times also reported that other tech companies are following a similar path: Google is developing high-altitude balloons equipped with radio antennae to connect areas lacking Internet access.

Already investing more than one billion dollarsin his connectivity initiative, Zuckerberg believes that mobile is the key to success of his strategy, according to CNN Money. 

Confronting his critics who question his profit motives, The New York Times reported that Zuckerberg conceded, “It’s not all altruism,” while adding, “We all benefit when we are more connected.” 

However, he asserted that money is not his main motivation: “If we really just wanted to focus on making money, the first billion people who are already on Facebook have way more money than the next five or six billion people combined,” according to CNN Money. 

ICTs provide quick and effective delivery of information to the poor in non-urban areas, allowing governments to quickly respond to the health and agricultural information it collects. In his editorial, Zuckerberg related how even the most basic Internet access through cell phones dramatically changes lives: farmers in Africa check crop prices, women in Kenya access microfinance services, and mothers in Guatemala learn about healthy pregnancies. 

Zuckerberg posted that one person escapes poverty for every ten people who connect to the Internet. At the UN, according to CNET, Zuckerberg claimed that 140 million new jobs would result from increased Internet access. 

Zuckerberg summed up his zealous endeavor to advance the Internet as a driver of social and economic development: “A like or a post won’t stop a tank or a bullet, but when people are connected, we have the chance to build a common global community with a shared understanding.”

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
