---
layout: article
image: /img/6.png
title: 2016 Presidential Election
excerpt: "On November 8th, months of political turmoil came to a head. Businessman Donald Trump was elected the 45th President of the United States, a result of a growing resentment of the political establishment."
---

<h2>2016 Presidential Election</h2>
<h4>By Brian Glucksman</h4>

On November 8th, months of political turmoil came to a head. Businessman Donald Trump was elected the 45th President of the United States, a result of a growing resentment of the political establishment. He is the first candidate to win the presidency without political, diplomatic, or military experience.

Although his Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton won the popular vote 48 to 47 percent (a margin of about 400,000 votes), Trump won 290 to 228 against Clinton in the electoral college (the results in Michigan and New Hampshire have yet to be finalized). Notably, neither candidate won over 50 percent of the vote, but because of the way the electoral college works, a candidate could theoretically win the presidency with less than 30 percent of the popular vote.

The results of the election were shocking to many across the nation, particularly because almost all polls and predictions projected a win for former Secretary of State Clinton. In order to win, Trump needed victories in the swing states, which he achieved in Ohio, Florida, and North Carolina, despite polls previously showing Clinton with a slight lead in many key states. His voter base consisted mostly of white men and women of all educational and social levels, although it was strongest with white rural and working-class voters. These voters turned out in numbers significantly higher than predicted by political experts while the turnout of minorities like African-Americans and Hispanics, which former Secretary of State Clinton needed, was much lower than in 2012. Donald Trump’s explosive campaign revealed what Democratic strategist Paul Begala called “deep divides,” between the media and the country, culminating in reality’s severe divergence from the data.

Although the media may be disconnected from the country, it is clear to all this election cycle spawned polarizing opinions and passionate views. Some BASIS students shared how they felt about President-Elect Donald Trump’s victory this November 8th:

A 10th grader who wished to remain anonymous said: “It’s the worst decision America has ever made. I get that people think he might fix the economy, but he’s xenophobic, racist, sexist, and economic policy does not justify his presidency.”

“I’m relieved that there’s a change in the views and the liberal mindset of the nation. He’s definitely not the best candidate, but it’s a change that I’m excited for,” shared another sophomore.

Danielle Borie, senior, said, “Trump is a monster who spews horrendous insults at basically everyone in the world. He should not be president.”
“It feels like a dream,” another sophomore said.

“Crikey mate. Australia, here I come,” joked one sophomore.

Whether you move out of the country or not, come January 20th, Donald Trump will be the President of the United States.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6>President-elect Trump meets with President Obama (Source: Quartz).</h6>