---
layout: article
image: /img/Serious_Syrian_Crisis.png
title: Serious Syrian Crisis
excerpt: "The heart-wrenching image of three year old Aylan Kurdi wrapped in white plastic after he died during his family’s escape from Syria to Turkey left the global audience appalled at the severity of Syrian displacement and enraged at the poor conditions the refugees were forced to live in."
---

<h2>Serious Syrian Crisis</h2>
<h4>By Zoë Mhungu</h4>

The heart-wrenching image of three year old Aylan Kurdi wrapped in white plastic after he died during his family’s escape from Syria to Turkey left the global audience appalled at the severity of Syrian displacement and enraged at the poor conditions the refugees were forced to live in. Before the photograph broadcast on media outlets all over the world, many (mostly residents of the North American continent) were oblivious to the four-year repercussions of the Arab Spring. 2011 marked the start of a desperate dash out of the chaos caused by the Spring with 5,000 Syrians fleeing to neighboring Lebanon. However, the situation has quickly transitioned from bad to worse: now, Syrian refugees compose a quarter of Lebanon's population. 

What has prompted such a dramatic surge in the number of Syrian citizens seeking asylum and protection in other countries? The majority of Syrians list continual bombings and intimidations, such as kidnapping as the main motivations to leave. A desire for safer conditions may be a shared characteristic of the refugees, but the desired destination varies. 

North of Syria and often a stopping-point before entering the European Union, Turkey shelters one million refugees; 30 percent refugees live in one of the twenty-two government refugee camps, leaving the remaining 700,000 Syrians taking shelter in local cities. The Turkish government has spent $1.5 billion housing the refugees, putting a high price on generosity.

A price, however, that many other countries are paying too. One hundred fifty thousand Syrian refugees have landed in the European Union since the dismantling of Colonel Gaddafi’s government. Economic opportunity and social stability tempt many refugees to make the dangerous journey to European countries, such as Greece, Germany, Sweden, and England. The influx of migrants in Europe has caused transportation systems to be over-crowded and borders to be highly protected.

The struggle does not end once refugees leave Syria; lack of employment, sanitary conditions, and education for children prevent a “return to normalcy” for many Syrians. Still plagued by malnutrition and attacks targeted towards women and children in camps, many refugees are still far from escaping the horrors of war. Our own nation has played a large role in addressing these problems by providing humanitarian aid to refugees and resettling 67,000 Syrians. Some argue that the U.S. should play a larger role by settling more than the current 1,393 Syrians within our own borders. 

Nevertheless, the Syrian crisis, now highly publicized, will remain relevant on the global radar as the number of refugees continues to increase and the issue enters debates in the upcoming U.S. presidential elections.  


<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6>Syria crisis continues to split the country and harm refugees.</h6>