---
layout: article
image: /img/A_New_PSAT.png
title: Psst... A New PSAT
excerpt: "The National Merit Scholarship Corporation uses the PSAT (Preliminary SAT exam)/NMSQT (National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test) as a standard for determining which eleventh graders become National Merit Semifinalists."
---

<h2>Psst... A New PSAT</h2>
<h4>By Brian Glucksman</h4>

The National Merit Scholarship Corporation uses the PSAT (Preliminary SAT exam)/NMSQT (National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test) as a standard for determining which eleventh graders become National Merit Semifinalists. As part of its efforts to improve standardized testing, the College Board has restructured the PSAT. On October 28, ninth, tenth and eleventh graders will be among the first students to see how the PSAT’s content and format have changed. 

The PSAT, like the SAT, consists of three sections: reading, writing, and math. While the updated PSAT retains its three sections: math, evidenced-based reading and writing. The “Evidence-Based Reading and Writing” section is essentially a combination of the reading and writing sections. Along with the name change is content change. Although the reading test will maintain questions assessing the test taker’s ability to interpret a passage’s meaning from context, new test takers will see marked changes. Unlike before, the reading test will focus on  scientific and historical reasoning, rather than solely reading comprehension. Additionally, the dreaded and obscure vocabulary questions will have been replaced with questions asking what a more common word means within a certain context. 

The writing section remains an essay-less evaluation of an understanding of English conventions. New to the sub-section are questions asking about the strength of provided evidence and requiring evaluation of informational graphics. The mathematics section is largely unchanged, as a mix of multiple choice questions and grid-ins still compose the same. One significant change, however, is the limit on permitted use of a calculator, as certain sections will not allow calculator use.

The PSAT has experienced a change in not only its content basis, but also its structural framework. The test has been lengthened by a half-hour to two hours and forty-five minutes by increasing the length of some sub-sections. 

Additionally, the guessing penalty, which previously deducted a quarter of a point for each incorrect answer, has been removed; students should leave any blanks on the test. Beyond those changes, testing procedures remain the same. Remember to arrive early, bring No. 2 pencils, and have your approved calculator on test day.

BASIS Scottsdale prepares students well for all standardized tests. To avoid any and all last minute surprises, be sure to familiarize yourself with the idiosyncrasies of the test. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6>The new PSAT premieres Wednesday, October 28.</h6>