---
layout: article
image: /img/5.png
title: Dylan Snags Nobel Prize
excerpt: "Since 1993, no American had won the Nobel Prize in literature...until Bob Dylan captured the award this year."
---

<h2>Dylan Snags Nobel Prize</h2>
<h4>By Brian Glucksman</h4>

Since 1993, no American had won the Nobel Prize in literature...until Bob Dylan captured the award this year. Alfred Nobel characterized the purpose of the award was to recognize "in the field of literature the most outstanding work in an ideal direction."

Since many people did not believe song lyrics could count as literature, the selection of Bob Dylan was a great surprise. Still, some people saw it coming The Nobel Prize is prohibited from releasing the list of finalists for fifty years. Therefore, the best predictions come from the betting markets, and Bob Dylan perennially lurked around 50-1 odds.

In their press release, the Nobel Prize believed Dylan earned the award “for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition.”

Several authors responded to Dylan’s Nobel with a mix of humor and derision. Jodi Picoult jokingly tweeted, “#ButDoesThisMeanICanWinAGrammy?” Also on twitter, Gary Shteyngart opined, “I totally get the Nobel committee. Reading books is hard.” Saladis Ahmed wrote that the choice of Dylan was “comically US centric.” Irivine Welsh believes that Dylan’s prize was a “nostalgia award.”

Dylan himself does not seem too keen on his winning of the award. He has not offered any comment about the award to the press or to the Nobel committee. Although he has appeared onstage many times since he has won the award, he has not mentioned it during any of his performances. The award was added to Dylan’s website, and was removed after five days.

Dylan’s actions are not unprecedented. Jean Paul Sartre refused to accept the 1964 Nobel Prize in Literature. The Nobel Prize, however, does not recognize refusals, and Sartre is listed on the Nobel website as a winner.
In turn, Per Wastberg, a member of the Swedish Academy—the group chooses the Nobel Prize winners, called Dylan “impolite and arrogant.” Dylan is scheduled to accept his award on December 10th, and it is unclear whether he will attend.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
