---
layout: article
image: /img/ebola.jpg
title: Ebola Hysteria
excerpt: "In October, classmates assaulted two Senegalese-American boys at a school in New York in an attack that left the victims so severely hurt that they had to be taken to the local hospital."
---

<h2>Ebola Hysteria</h2>
<h4>By Navya Dasari</h4>

In October, classmates assaulted two Senegalese-American boys at a school in New York in an attack that left the victims so severely hurt that they had to be taken to the local hospital. During and before the incident, the boys were taunted with false accusations of having Ebola, and the school soon identified the racialized stigma surrounding the disease as a primary motive for the violence.

Ironically, further panic has eclipsed this story, the disturbing attack lost among countless articles asking where the disease could spread next. But if the headline seems ripped from a history book, it’s for good reason: epidemics have always brought bigotry out of the shadows.

As the Black Death spread across Europe in the late 14th century, people chose a different scapegoat. Jews were accused of poisoning wells to cause the plague, and hundreds were killed in the backlash that followed. Historically, almost every ethnic group sought to label syphilis as foreign. Italians called it the “French disease,” while the French called it the “Italian disease”; the Dutch called it the “Spanish disease,” Russians called it the “Polish disease,” Ottoman Turks called it the “Christian Disease,” and Tahitians called it the “British disease.”

In a modern context, a destructive stigma also accompanied the rise of the AIDS epidemic in the 1980s, and the disease was first labeled “gay-related immune deficiency,” or “gay plague.” That reputation persists today, even with overwhelming evidence against a connection between homosexuality and HIV: in 2013, 14% of Americans surveyed agreed that AIDS was a punishment from God for sinful sexual behavior. 

When faced with the fear of death, our instinct is to point fingers, to distance ourselves from the disease as much as we can. We see the foreign as a vector for illness, and we lunge for isolationism to shield ourselves. Dr. Joia Mukherjee, a professor at Harvard Medical School, identified this reaction to Ebola as an attempt to “otherize” the disease. And exotification is instinctive when it comes to Ebola; after all, over half of the victims killed by the disease have been Liberian. The media portrayal of Ebola fits easily into the narrative of the developing world as a place of filth and sickness. 

Homophobia helped fuel the AIDS epidemic, preventing many with the condition from seeking help. Now, racism is fueling Ebola.

As Leo Mulbah−the head of Atlanta’s Liberian Association−observed, there were no travel bans when mad cow disease spread from Britain in the 1980s, or when swine flu spread from China more recently. The strict ban so many politicians and citizens are calling for now would prevent humanitarian aid from reaching West Africa, and would encourage people desperate to reach home to travel through other countries instead, making it even more difficult to confine the spread of the contagion.

In order to make compassionate and logical decisions about health policy, we need to recognize that Ebola has been racialized in the public consciousness. In order to prevent ethnic violence, we need to challenge the ignorance that breeds it. Ebola is not a solely African problem anymore, and the longer we pretend that national isolation is protection, the longer we allow the epidemic to spread. 

In the meantime, the panic over Ebola highlights an uncomfortable truth: America is not post-racial. Xenophobia festers. Hysteria brings it out.

<hr style="color:black; border-width:2px; border-color:black; margin: 0px; margin-top: 30px; padding-bottom: 10px;">