---
layout: article
image: /img/Thumbs_Up.png
title: Thumbs Up for the Thumbs Down Button?
excerpt: "Your best friend posts on Facebook today announcing the passing of the old family dog. You find yourself in a perplexing situation: do you like the post or not? Would pressing the “Like” button mean liking the tragic event itself?"
---

<h2>Thumbs Up for the Thumbs Down Button?</h2>
<h4>By Bailey Mirmelli</h4>

Your best friend posts on Facebook today announcing the passing of the old family dog. You find yourself in a perplexing situation: do you like the post or not? Would pressing the “Like” button mean liking the tragic event itself?

Facing this problem for a long while, users have consistently urged Facebook to provide a solution to their crisis. Many suggested the addition of a “Dislike” button. However, numerous opponents pointed out several complications to this proposed solution. Mark Zuckerberg himself acknowledged such potential difficulties in his response to the question at a Q&A event at Facebook’s headquarters. He addressed the possibility of a dislike button feeding controversy:

“We don’t want to turn Facebook into a forum where people are voting up or down on people’s posts.”
             
In addition, parents and other concerned individuals anticipate a facilitated ground for cyberbullying. Tracy Beckerman, a columnist and mother of a victim of bullying on Facebook, dismisses the idea completely and indicates that there are already enough opportunities for children to bully each other without a dislike button. Numerous other parents raised similar objections.  
             
However, these drawbacks did not stop Facebook users from searching for a new way to express an emotion other than contentment. Mark Zuckerberg explains his clients’ interest and demonstrates his own understanding of their concern: “But your friends want to be able to express that they understand and relate to you, so I do think it’s important to give people more options than just ‘like’ as a quick way to emote and share what they’re feeling on a post.”
             
But the real question arises: how can we do this without directly provoking hatred or disagreement to any post? According to Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED), Facebook has found a solution, and has already begun to test several emoticons that will serve to convey emotions other than “like.” The new icons include responses such as “Haha,” “Yay,” “Wow,” “Sad,” “Angry,” and “Love.”
             
These buttons allow users to demonstrate their feelings without providing fresh fodder to bullies and others intending to incite disapproval or anger. This new update enables users to express myriad feelings without having the option to completely rejecting a post with a straight thumbs-down. Bloomberg News registered their approval of the resolution and even went further to recognize the problems that a dislike button would present that these individual buttons would not. A dislike button, they said, may “inject negativity into a social network fueled by baby photos and videos of corgis waddling at the beach.” This array of different expressions, however, did not directly encourage negativity. 
 	
As a matter of fact, Facebook’s data statistically proves that the most used emoji of all is the “Love” button. 
              
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
