---
layout: article
image: /img/colorado.png
title: History on the March in Colorado
excerpt: "Some pockets of protests percolate in predictable places: Hong Kong's pro-democracy demonstrations, Ukraine's defiance of Putin, and Egypt's Arab Spring. Nevertheless, the seeds of the First Amendment still find fertile soil to sprout in their homeland, America."
---

<h2>History on the March in Colorado</h2>
<h4>By Michael Appel</h4>

Some pockets of protests percolate in predictable places: Hong Kong's pro-democracy demonstrations, Ukraine's defiance of Putin, and Egypt's Arab Spring. Nevertheless, the seeds of the First Amendment still find fertile soil to sprout in their homeland, America. Ensconced in Denver's comfortable suburbs, free speech fever spiked in Jefferson County, Colorado as September gave way to October. High school students walked out of their schools, hoisted hand-made signs, and clogged the streets to protest the school board's attempt to alter the AP U.S. History (APUSH) course in reaction to its perceived anti-American bias. 

The student-led protest germinated on September 19, with the school board's decision to form a review committee for the revised APUSH course to ensure the promotion of patriotism, free enterprise, and respect for authority and to avoid condoning civil disorder. Believing the board to be censoring history to further a conservative political agenda, high school students responded with the very civil disobedience that the board had sought to downplay in American history. Upset that the newly-elected, conservative majority on the school board had proposed the history curriculum changes in addition to a new salary system based on merit pay for student test performance, many high school teachers joined ranks with their students, staging massive "sickouts," which shut down two schools.

The glare from the lenses of national media ignited the student protest. Social media and the active support of parents and community members encouraged thousands of high school students to prolong their protest. Although the fruit of the protest seems small, it is potentially significant. On October 2, the school board voted to include students, parents, and administrators on a new review committee to evaluate the APUSH curriculum. Although the board's latest proposal deletes references to promoting patriotism instead of social disorder, it remains unclear whether the board will actually heed the voices of protest by implementing the APUSH curriculum. 

The fervor of the firebrand students begs the question of why the College Board revised the U.S. History course in the first place. Back in 2006, the College Board appointed college professors and high school teachers to redesign the class to deemphasize rote memorization of facts and promote more in-depth coverage of themes and application of critical thinking to historical documents. Two of the most prominent content changes are the increased focus of the previously glossed-over period from 1491 to 1607, stressing Native American−European settler conflict, and the period from 1980 to the present, highlighting social conservatism and post-9/11 counter-terrorism. The new course was first publicized in 2012 and first implemented this year, 2014-2015. The impact will reach many high school students across the nation: last year, 440,000 students sat for the APUSH exam, the second most popular AP test after AP Language and Composition. 

Colorado is not the sole contender in the controversy over the revised APUSH curriculum. The Texas Board of Education in 2010 voted to keep its current curriculum, rather than teach to the APUSH framework. Likewise, conservatives in South Carolina have urged an education oversight committee to petition the College Board to delete ideological bias from its framework. The Republican National Committee (RNC) in August, 2014, criticized the course in a resolution, objecting to its "radically revisionist view of American history," which it claims focuses on the negative and largely erases the positive. Asking Congress to withhold any federal funds to the College Board unless the course is rewritten, the resolution further urged a congressional investigation and a one year delay, at minimum, in the course's implementation, until a committee can devise a new version that tells America's "true history." The 600,000-strong members of the conservative activist group Concerned Women for America agreed with RNC, instructing followers to persuade school boards not to implement the course. 

On the other hand, several pre-eminent organizations, such as the American Civil Liberties Union of Colorado, the National Coalition Against Censorship, and the National Council for the Social Studies, wrote a letter to the school board in support of the student protesters. Admonishing the board that viewpoint discrimination is unconstitutional, whether couched in terms to promote patriotism or not, the letter argues that the school must maintain official neutrality in politics. Likewise, the American Historical Association approved of the APUSH curriculum and, in a groundbreaking motion, the College Board issued a statement praising the student protesters and cautioning that it would no longer recognize the county's APUSH courses if the school board alters the course. 

Much confusion swirls about what elements allegedly contain the anti-American bias. While naysayers are correct when they point out that MLK, Benjamin Franklin, George Washington, and Dwight Eisenhower are not specifically listed in the new AP framework, they neglect to mention that those same names were omitted in the previous frameworks in effect from 2010-2011 until 2013-2014. Nevertheless, teachers included those figures in their classes, alluding to the College Board's assertion that the framework is just a guideline, not an exhaustive list of content. 

Perhaps the debate can be summed up with a bon mot from Napoleon Bonaparte: "History is a version of past events that people have decided to agree upon." Which version of American history−the school board's American exceptionalism or the College Board's more complex portrait−should be taught in American schools? The answer arouses passions on both sides. However, the vigorous exercise of constitutional rights by the Colorado students is putting into practice fundamental lessons of American citizenship: peaceful protest to question authority and effectuate change. Perhaps the more important question is whether any one entity--be it the College Board or the Jefferson County School Board--should unilaterally decide the answer. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
