---
layout: article
image: /img/6.jpg
title: Unrest in Charlotte
excerpt: "On September 20, Brentley Vinson, a black police officer, shot and killed Keith Lamont Scott, a black 43- year-old man, in Charlotte."
---

<h2>Unrest in Charlotte</h2>
<h4>By Brian Glucksman</h4>

On September 20, Brentley Vinson, a black police officer, shot and killed Keith Lamont Scott, a black 43- year-old man, in Charlotte.

According to the Charlotte-Mecklenberg Police Department, two police officers observed Scott rolling a marijuana cigarette in his SUV. They did not chose to arrest Scott for drug possession until an officer saw Scott holding up a gun in his car. At that point, the officers identified themselves as police and repeatedly demanded that Scott drop his gun. Scott exited the car and backed away, but he did not drop his gun. Vinson believed Scott was pointing his gun at an officer, so he shot and killed Scott. The Charlotte-Mecklenberg Police Department claims that marijuana, a gun, and a holster with Scott’s DNA were all found at the crime scene. The Charlotte- Mecklenberg Police Department is not charging Vinson with any crime.

Nevertheless, many in Charlotte and across the nation, question the story of the police. Scott’s family claims that he was holding a book, not a gun and that he did not own any firearms. They also cite how video evidence from police body cameras, which Charlotte took four days to release, does not clearly show what Scott has in his hand or show Scott pointing anything at police officers. Additionally, there is wide mistrust around police department because video evidence has failed to support the initial stories of the Cincinnati Police Department and the Chicago Police Department regarding the shootings of Samuel DuBose and Laquan McDonald, respectively.

Even if Scott had been carrying a gun, many residents of Charlotte do not believe that he should have been shot. His family cla ims that he was only unresponsive to the police because he had become “mentally disabled” due to a motorcycle accident the previous year. Additionally, North Carolina has an open carry law, so Scott is legally allowed to carry a handgun.

The outrage around the killing of Scott as well as the anger surrounding racia lly inequa lity prompted protests in Charlotte. The protests spanned four nights. For the most part, protesters were peaceful, but during the protests, sixteen police officers were injured, and one man was allegedly shot by other protesters. There were also reports of the looting of businesses.

In response to the protests, the city established a midnight curfew. Mostly, the police avoided clashing with the protesters. Still, the mayor called in the National Guard, and the police used tear gas to disperse protesters blocking a highway.

Although the protests have stopped, the city of Charlotte is still deeply divided. Charlotte is largely a wealthy city, but the heavy black West and Northeast are still deeply impoverished. Additionally, the West and the Northeast are heavily policed, and black people are killed there at disproportionately high rates by the police.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6>Tensions have escalated in Charlotte and around the nation (Source: MSNBC).</h6>