---
layout: article
image: /img/Choose_One_Choose_All.png
title: Gender: Choose One, All, or None 
excerpt: "Most college classrooms today no longer require the Socratic method of teaching; most college admissions applications, however, still remain exercises in expounding upon Socrates’ command, “Know thyself.”"
---

<h2>Gender: Choose One, All, or None</h2>
<h4>By Lauren Appel</h4>

Most college classrooms today no longer require the Socratic method of teaching; most college admissions applications, however, still remain exercises in expounding upon Socrates’ command, “Know thyself.” Besides demanding self-reflection in required essays and career commitment in major choice, applications for a growing number of colleges and universities now offer prospective students the option of declaring gender identity and sexual orientation. 

Expanding students’ gender choices incorporates the burgeoning social acceptance and legal protection afforded to the LGBTQ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer) community—most recently expressed by the Supreme Court’s ruling validating the constitutionality of same-sex marriage in Obergefell v. Hodges. With gay-straight alliances commonplace in many high schools and transgender celebrities profiled in the media, colleges have followed suit to foster inclusiveness, welcome diversity, and document data on LGBTQ student needs.

Replacing the traditional gender question’s binary choice of male or female, some colleges have begun to offer multiple gender identity choices. In 2011, Illinois’ Elmhurst College was the first to inaugurate a sexual orientation question on its application. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology followed in 2013 with an optional check-box question covering both “sexual orientation/gender identity,” allowing respondents to check all that apply among the following: lesbian, gay, straight/heterosexual, bisexual, transgender, unsure, a fill-in-the-blank another identity, or a “prefer not to answer.” Boston University, the University of Pennsylvania, Connecticut College, Elon College, Northeastern Illinois University, Ohio State University, and the University of Iowa are among the more prominent colleges providing an optional question concerning self-identification with the LGBTQ community, according to Campus Pride. 

This year, the ten-campus University of California (UC) system introduced six gender identities for undergraduate applicants: male, female, trans male, trans female, gender queer/gender nonconforming, and different identity. In addition, UC applicants may voluntarily self-identify their sexual orientation by selecting “heterosexual or straight,” “gay or lesbian,” or filling in the blank option. However, the UC application retains the binary choice of male or female in response to the optional question: “What sex were you assigned at birth, such as on an original birth certificate?”

The UC gamut of gender categories aims to derive “better information” to engender “better decisions” to better serve the demographics of its students, and responses bear no implication on acceptance, according to Kate Moser, spokeswoman at UC’s office of the president. The UC system’s separate questions on gender identity and sexual orientation underscore the difference between the terms: gender identity reflects individuals’ perceptions of their own gender and sexual orientation refers to their physical attraction. 

The application changes, in a statement by UC president Janet Napolitano, are one way it “must continue to look at where we can improve so everyone at UC feels respected and supported.” UCR Today reports that UC schools have allowed student record systems to report a student’s preferred name alongside a legal name since 2014. Moreover, the UC system has remodeled single-stall bathrooms into gender-neutral restrooms on many of its campuses and has commenced a two-year program facilitating the interdisciplinary study of genders and sexualities.

The Common Application so far has refused to incorporate gender identity and sexual orientation questions, whether optional or not, rejecting a recommendation by LGTBQ organizations in 2011. Locally, Arizona State University similarly maintains the male/female choice.

Duke University, however, broke ground this fall by expressly inquiring about applicants’ gender identity and sexual orientation, presenting an optional 250-word essay question asking students to elaborate on their identity, citing sexual identity as a prime example of the same. Originating with Duke’s undergraduate LGBT organization, Blue Devils United (BDU), this additional question aims to announce that “at Duke, your identity won’t just be tolerated, it will be celebrated,” according to BDU President Daniel Kort. Beyond just collecting data on sexual and gender diversity, the essay allows applicants to voice one significant aspect of their identity, instead of using the 650-word Common App essay to define themselves solely by their gender or orientation. 

The University of Vermont leads the vanguard in the next stage of gender identity by acknowledging the existence of a third gender: gender neutral. Currently recognizing students’ right to self-invent their own gender identity by registering a new first name that need not have been legally changed, the University of Vermont also invites students to list a preferred pronoun in campus information records. To expose the inherent biases of the “he” or “she” binary pronouns, the university administration uses the unisex “they” substitute, the favorite—although grammatically incorrect—choice of the transgender community, according to the New York Times. 

This seemingly simple shift, the New York Times further reports, was not so simple: gender neutral options cost the University of Vermont almost ten years of lobbying; a task force of student, faculty, and administrators; and an $80,000, six-month creation of software. Beginning in 2009, almost 2000 students at the university have selected a preferred pronoun. Fourteen of those students chose “ze,” a single unisex pronoun popular in the trans community as a substitute for the masculine “he” (“hir” replaces “his/her”). The university predicated its name and pronoun policy upon its desire to dismantle the difficulties endured by transgender students, noting that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that LGBTQ teens suffer from more than double the likelihood of attempted suicide than their heterosexual peers.

Perhaps the transgender question resonates the most deeply for women’s colleges—schools that define themselves as single-sex institutions. Barnard, Smith, and Wellesley accept applications from trans women, individuals who were born male but identify as female. Mount Holyoke goes one step further, admitting not only trans men but everyone on the entire gender spectrum, only excluding applicants born male and still identifying as male, according to AP reporter Jocelyn Noveck. 

Nevertheless, broadening the gender spectrum of acceptable students correspondingly inflates the potential for religious grievances and sex-discrimination allegations, especially with regard to housing practicalities. Roommate preferences based on gender identity, as pointed out by Mount Holyoke President Lynn Pasquerella to Wall Street Journal fellow Daniella Greenbaum, are as impermissible as discriminatory requests to avoid rooming with a person of a certain religion or race. In the end, women’s colleges wish to maintain the same welcoming environment for all persons identifying as female.

While most schools, including the more than 600 schools utilizing the Common App, retain the traditional male-female gender question, evolving cultural norms suggest that gender will likewise continue to progress from a binary to a continuum. The theoretical debate has already spawned a host of pragmatic modifications in its wake, from gender-neutral bathrooms to revised English grammar, which will foreseeably filter into educational institutions everywhere, including high schools and middle schools. 

The teachings of Ancient Greece remain relevant today, after all. The more society changes, the more the fundamental questions stay the same—exploring what it is to be human.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6>Gender: Choose One, All, or None. </h6>