---
layout: article
title: Reflections of a Luncheon Waitress
excerpt: "Do I see BASIS students, in crisp aprons, whisking platters of gumbo and succotash to a host of distinguished guests? Or not-so-elegantly shoving plates onto cream-colored tablecloth?"
---

<h2>Reflections of a Temporary Luncheon Waitress</h2>
<h4>By Kathleen Wu</h4>

Do I see BASIS students, in crisp aprons, whisking platters of gumbo and succotash to a host of distinguished guests? Or not-so-elegantly shoving plates onto cream-colored tablecloth? Last Sunday, members of the BASIS National Honor Society helped serve lunch for a Pueri Cantores youth choir fundraiser at St. Bernard of Clairvaux Catholic Church. Luncheon patrons, who donated $25 to fund the choir's trip to Rome, filed in from mass at noon. Our job was to set the tables and prepare for three-hours of plate-delivering and drink-pouring.

Upon entering the Church's Parish Hall, we were provided white aprons, large plastic gloves, and table numbers to serve. We were trained on how to pour water from large, ice-swirling jugs (tip to the side first to minimize spillage), on how to serve dishes ("Excuse me, sir-madam, allow me to serve you", then graciously place the plate on the table) and clear places (take from the left; never take the plate away without first confirming Mr. Eating-Person's full completion of his meal). Always keep the glasses full; one plate at a time; both hands on the plate to prevent lima beans from raining onto astonished civilians' heads.

At the start of the luncheon, we formed two lines of paired, gloved, and fidgeting persons. On his way to the head table, the bishop blessed us for our service, and, glowing, we commenced the delivery of the day's meal. We were instructed to serve the ladies at the table first, and then the men, but this caused us literal-minded students some confusion (what of the children? the elderly?). With only one kitchen/source of food delivery, our rate of delivery was around two plates, per volunteer, per half hour. Many expressed concern over the inefficiency of the process. Others displayed dismay over the impropriety of asking "May I clear your place?" while the choir was singing. But these anxieties were forgotten as our clients, one by one, dug into their meals with relish; as, one by one, one less customer was left to eye a more fortunate neighbor's plate with gastric indignance.

After three hours of precarious balancing acts, we were weary. We gazed hungrily at half-eaten sponge cake slices. Gumbo wafted fragrantly into our twitching nostrils as we scraped it into trash receptacles. But we had fulfilled our duty. We had fed a room of people without drowning anyone in sausage soup.

<hr style="color:black; border-width:2px; border-color:black; margin: 0px; margin-top: 30px; padding-bottom: 10px;">
