---
layout: article
image: /img/11.jpg
title: Sully: Brace for Impact
excerpt: "“Eastwood has delivered a no-frills affair, almost to a fault. A brisk 96 minutes, the movie is workmanlike in its approach, yet still manages to be stirring thanks to the ￼subject matter.”"
---

<h2>Sully: Brace for Impact</h2>
<h4>By Varun Kukunoor</h4>

“Eastwood has delivered a no-frills affair, almost to a fault. A brisk 96 minutes, the movie is workmanlike in its approach, yet still manages to be stirring thanks to the ￼subject matter.”
￼<i>-Brian Lowry, CNN</i>

Sully took the movie industry by storm, presenting an unorthodox, short film that focused on the emotional state of the protagonist Captain Ches ley "Sully" Sullenberger, portrayed by Tom Hanks, after the famous Hudson River plane landing. For a movie that can easily be made into an action flick, viewers and critics alike were presently surprised to see a toned-down, personal film focused on connecting with the audience rather than trite action, effects, and computer generated images.

The brisk movie opens with Captain Chelsey “Sully” Sullenberger waking from a vivid nightmare of the plane crashing into a building. It is exactly one week after his landing on the Hudson River took place. Rather than being able to celebrate “The Miracle of the Hudson,” he must endure the emotional trauma brought by the media and the board investigating the incident. Throughout the film, the board is adamant on punishing him for taking the risk in landing in a body of water instead of flying back to LaGuardia airport in New York or making an emergency landing in Teterboro airport in New Jersey, but he insists that his actions are warranted.

The movie was incredibly well-received. It allowed the audience to take part in the landing and its consequences for everyone on board. It even acknowledged everyone’s importance in the incident: the cooperative passengers, flight attendants, and co-pilot Jeff Skiles. The film also made use of an incredible cast and crew, including Tom Hanks and Clint Eastwood, two talented Academy Award winners.

All in all, if you are looking for a movie that detaches from the action stereotype for a movie that could be filled with it, give <i>Sully</i> a watch. But brace for impact; you won’t take your eyes off the screen
 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6> (Source: Chicago Sun-Times) </h6>

