---
layout: article
image: /img/icymi.jpg
title: ICYMI - Over the Summer
excerpt: "If you’re anything like me, you spent practically your entire summer immersed in the worlds of Netflix and ice cream. However, it has come to my attention that obsessively watching Season 5 of “Gossip Girl” all day does not end in much knowledge..."
---

<h2>ICYMI - Over the Summer</h2>
<h4>By Nitya Aggarwal</h4>

If you’re anything like me, you spent practically your entire summer immersed in the worlds of Netflix and ice cream. However, it has come to my attention that obsessively watching Season 5 of “Gossip Girl” all day does not end in much knowledge about anything but Chuck’s and Blair’s relationship status. While that is a very worthwhile thing to know, Very Important Things apparently happened during my summer of seclusion. Shocker, I know.

Very Important Thing Number One: OBERGEFELL v. HOGES Supreme Court Case. In this Supreme Court ruling, gay and lesbian marriage was legalized. It is now illegal in all 50 states to stop a gay couple from getting married. People across America celebrated at this step towards LGBT rights, waving rainbow flags and chanting happily. Justice Kennedy wrote that the Constitution grants gay couples the right to marry, and the majority of Americans agree. 

Very Important Thing Number Two: Hacked! Millions of federal employees were hacked in the largest data breach of federal employees to date, involving both present and past employees. The hackers have been traced to China, and may have begun hacking in late 2014. You may be wondering why this should be important to you. Well, it’s scary that hackers can hack federal databases, that’s why.

Very Important Thing Number Three: Cuba doesn’t hate us anymore! Well, maybe they still hate us, but embassies between Cuba and the U.S. have been opened for the first time since 1961. Cuba’s embassy in Washington, D.C. has been reopened, as is the US embassy in Havana. It’s a major step towards rebuilding relations with Cuba, which means vacationing in Cuba is suddenly a real possibility. 

Very Important Thing Number Four: The U.S Women’s Soccer team beat Japan in the World Cup! Okay, maybe not as important, but Carli Lloyd scored the first hat trick in Women’s World Cup history. It is the third Women’s World Cup for the U.S., although the U.S. women’s team was paid significantly less for winning the World Cup than the men’s was for losing pretty badly. 

Very Important Thing Number Five: Greece is still in the financial doldrums, unfortunately. I would tell you more about it, but it is a lot of technical financial stuff that I do not understand, so let me put it simply: it is bad. Very bad.

Very Important Thing Number Six: Iran agrees to a nuclear deal! Iran’s ability to produce nuclear weapons has been limited in a deal that lifted the economic sanctions placed on Iran. Basically, Iran gets a lot of money in exchange for a very restrained capacity to create nuclear bombs. Its uranium stockpile has been reduced by 98 percent.

Very Important Thing Number Seven: Apparently, after World War 2, Japan’s military was banned from participating in foreign conflicts. That legislation was lifted this summer, allowing Japan to once again fight wars. Parliament’s lower house approved this, and the United States supports the bill, along with Japan’s Prime Minister. A Chinese military spokesperson spoke out, saying that China hopes Japan sticks to the path of peace even if its ban has been lifted for the sake of Asian security.

And that concludes the list of Very Important Things, which you may have missed over the summer. While I will not fight you on the importance of watching the next season of “Sherlock,” it is also good to know what is going on in the world. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
