---
layout: article
image: /img/hallways.png
title: Surviving BASIS Hallways
excerpt: "A new year at BASIS Scottsdale means new students, new teachers, and new pick-up and drop-off policies that parents never follow. Yet one thing remains the same, year after year..."
---

<h2>Surviving BASIS Hallways</h2>
<h4>By Gursajan Gill</h4>

A new year at BASIS Scottsdale means new students, new teachers, and new pick-up and drop-off policies that parents never follow. Yet one thing remains the same, year after year: the hallways, those tight corridors that supposedly serve the purpose of allowing the students to seamlessly move from class to class. 

The hallways of BASIS Scottsdale feel like a Walmart during Black Friday. These hallways are too narrow to support even our modest student body. To a seasoned veteran of the BASIS hallways, this is everyday life; to our naive, little fifth and sixth graders, this a traumatic experience.

Surviving the hallways is no easy task: it takes years and years to master the stealthy techniques and the fast footwork for navigating the treacherous seas of BASIS students. To those newbies out there, here are a few tips.

First of all, stay on the right side, unless you have to cross the flow of traffic to get to a class. Staying on the right side makes it easier for you and those around you. Secondly, don’t push. Pushing will not get you anywhere; it will just annoy the person in front of you. Finally, learn how to dodge others. There will always be those frightened little people who will come charging at you like bulls towards a rodeo clown--just step out of the way. 

Even with a mastery of the above skills, the hallways still remain a hassle. The best and most obvious way to get rid of all of this traffic is to build bigger hallways. Since that will not happen anytime soon, here is another solution: vary the times the classes get out. The Upper Schoolers could end class five minutes after the Lower Schoolers. In this way, there will not be a sudden onslaught of students to jam traffic at every turn of a corner. As for now, we will have to keep riding the waves of students to get to our next class.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
