---
layout: article
image: /img/malavika.png
title: Malavika's Musings
excerpt: "As modern-day high school students, our lives are a never-ending race to the top. Between AP classes, extracurriculars, and the inevitable social preoccupations of our age group, it’s a miracle how any of us manages to get enough sleep."
---

<h2>Time to Slow Down</h2>
<h4>By Malavika Krishnan</h4>

As modern-day high school students, our lives are a never-ending race to the top. Between AP classes, extracurriculars, and the inevitable social preoccupations of our age group, it’s a miracle how any of us manages to get enough sleep. Our generation only fuels a vicious societal cycle of constant productivity. We are obsessed with outdoing one another, padding our resumes, and packing every last moment with activity. The prevalence of technology has only made it easier for young people to overload themselves with tasks meant to give them an advantage in an increasingly demanding economy. In fact, we have reached a point where being busy holds a certain social cachet. Among friends and acquaintances, seemingly harmless complaints about one’s remaining tasks quickly devolves into a contest over who is the busiest or the most stressed. As Meghan Casserly of Forbes eloquently put it in 2012, “If time is money, millennials are broke.” 

In the midst of all this stress, have we lost what it truly means to be human? Many argue that the cycle of productivity is a trap--work more at a job you don’t like to make money you don’t have time to spend or you use to feed yourself so you can work more. The old adage, “life is short,” ironically rings truer for Millennials than it has for any other generation preceding us. Although our life spans have increased by incredible numbers, the amount of time we spend on leisure seems to be steadily decreasing. The craze starts young, but it lasts well into adulthood if it is fueled. Everything, even hobbies, is expected to have a productive end goal. Unfortunately, the mania of busyness is detracting from our quality of life--and even decreasing our productivity in the long term. In fact, 45 percent of 17-year-olds, TIME reports, admit they only read by choice once or twice a year, a substantial decline from years past. No longer do we take the time to read, play sports, or reflect. Instead, we are expected to be available via technology and social media 24/7, checking our email for requests and updating Twitter to make sure we are caught up on the latest news story.

Disengagement may seem like an easy way to fall behind in our chaotic, frenzied world, but it can actually give us many personal advantages. The National Institute of Health finds that just a short period of time spent meditating each day can help develop positive social connections. Activities such as reading, or even just spending some time alone engaging in a stimulating hobby, can have similar effects on one’s daily interactions.

At BASIS Scottsdale, it is easy to get caught up in the vicious cycle. Our school expects a certain academic standard from us that is in itself a full-time commitment for students, and coupled with extracurricular activities and study time, we are left with little to no free time to engage in activities we truly enjoy. Despite the roadblocks, we as students must make the effort to devote time to ourselves each and every day, simply for our own sanity and well-being. 

If we can manage to disconnect from the daily monotony of our high school routines and take some time to explore ourselves and the world around us, then we will be happier, and even more productive, as a result.  

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
