---
layout: article
image: /img/9.jpg
title: Conquering the Thanksgiving Feast
excerpt: "Was your family sucked into the formidable task of hosting Thanksgiving dinner... again?"
---

<h2>Conquering the Thanksgiving Feast</h2>
<h4>By Bailey Mirmelli</h4>

Was your family sucked into the formidable task of hosting Thanksgiving dinner... again? While haunting memories of last-minute potatoes, emergency supermarket runs, and unfortunately overcooked turkey—alas! too late to start over—flood your mind, this task may seem the most daunting of all. However, luckily for you, the fearsome role of host can be made easy—easy enough for you to rejoice in the opportunity of organizing such a feast to honor the day the English colonists and Native Americans became best friends and lived happily ever after (right?). From shortening cooking time to giving your guests more to enjoy, these simple tips will ensure a happier holiday for all.

Firstly, preparing a turkey may seem unrealistically difficult and grueling. It always seems still frozen, still cooking, or now burning. There is never, ever an in-between; ask your parents about it (after they have screamed away their frustration at the scorched corpse of a once promising—yet never too promising—bird). Nevertheless, an informed turkey cooker can avoid these supposedly inevitable problems. These three tips will prove helpful in making a delicious turkey to gobble up even when you’ve already messed up (or before you’ve already messed up).

1. Despite prior assumptions, it is possible to cook that turkey forgotten in the freezer. Simply place the bird in the oven at 325 degrees for three to four hours (depending on its size), take it out to season, and put it back in for another three to four hours or until the turkey reaches an internal temperature of around 170 degrees—basically the same strategy with a thawed bird though a bit longer (so start early always).

2. Leaving the turkey in the oven overnight will ensure both you and the guests are not waiting around for the anticipated main course to finish. Pop a large turkey (twenty to twenty-two pounds), seasoned how you enjoy it most, in the oven at 11:00 PM Cook at 400 degrees for thirty minutes. Turn it down to 250 degrees. Wake up to a divine aroma, a warm oven, and a cooked turkey at 7:00 AM.

3. If the turkey seems overcooked, a drizzle of warmed chicken broth over each serving masks the lost flavor and moisture.

A perfect turkey deserves to be accompanied by tasty sides. What is Thanksgiving without corn and stuffing? A Thanksgiving meal with only a turkey is just a turkey meal after all. Some last measures you can take to improve your dinner include the following:

To have fluffier mashed potatoes, add a pinch of baking soda to that old recipe, and keep them in a slow cooker before serving (because no one likes cold potatoes).

Add a drizzle of marshmallows on top of yams for the taste of dessert (and children might even like eating them).

Use dry, crumbly, stale cornbread for the dressing because dryness can always be fixed with extra broth.

Make the gravy beforehand and keep it in a thermos so no guests are waiting impatiently with their mouths watering when everything else seems ready.

Delegate sides to your guests. “Uncle John, this dinner would not be complete without your squash casserole.” Flattery may just save you.

But, in the end, the smartest and best way to make Thanksgiving dinner less stressful for your family is not to slow cook the turkey, or to buy instant mashed potatoes. Next time, just allow yourself to be invited somewhere.

<b>Recipe of the Month:</b>
Mama Bonnie’s Pecan Pie (about 11 servings)
<ul>
<li>1 1⁄2 cups and 1 tablespoon flour</li>
<li>1⁄2 cup cold butter</li>
<li>salt</li>
<li>3 tablespoons melted butter</li>
<li>2 tablespoons white sugar</li>
<li>1⁄2 cup crushed and 1 cup halved pecans</li>
<li>3⁄4 cup brown sugar</li>
<li>1 1⁄2 teaspoon vanilla</li>
<li>4 tablespoons iced water</li>
<li>1 teaspoon cinnamon</li>
<li>3 beaten eggs</li>
<li>honey, brown sugar, and melted butter for halved pecans</li>
<li>3⁄4 cup light, 2 tablespoons dark corn syrup</li>
</ul>

Preheat oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.

Starting with the crust, combine the 1 1⁄2 cups flour, 1⁄2 teaspoon salt, and white sugar together in a medium mixing bowl. Add and stir butter into mixture until it appears crumby. Sprinkle water slowly over the mixture, stirring until it comes together enough to form a ball. Flour a surface to flatten the ball with rolling pin. Roll dough into a circle about one inch larger than the pie dish. Press dough into dish and place pie weight (you can use plastic wrap and pennies or beans, etc. instead) in the dish to keep the shape. Place into refrigerator until the filling is finished.

Now, in another bowl, mix the 1 tablespoon flour, beaten eggs, corn syrups, butter, a pinch of salt, brown sugar, vanilla, cinnamon and crushed pecans. Pour mixture over the refrigerated pie crust. Put in oven. In a saucepan, mix the halved pecans in the honey, butter, brown sugar. Lastly, lay the pecan halves on top for the last fifteen minutes of baking, or until firm. Cover it with aluminum foil to preserve moistness and allow it to cool before serving after that Thanksgiving dinner.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

