---
layout: article
image: /img/13.png
title: Daphne's Declassified
excerpt: "November. The first real hint of fall in Arizona— also known as the beginning of 90 degree weather. With the beginning sting of true chill slipping through the air, we all slip back into our homes, heated to mimic the usual toasty weather (you know, toasty in the way that burned bread is toasty)."
---

<h2>Daphne's Declassified</h2>
<h4>By Daphne Li-Chen</h4>

November. The first real hint of fall in Arizona— also known as the beginning of 90 degree weather. With the beginning sting of true chill slipping through the air, we all slip back into our homes, heated to mimic the usual toasty weather (you know, toasty in the way that burned bread is toasty). November also brings the first school dance of the school year: homecoming.

Even though we have no sports team to celebrate the homecoming of, we can still mimic normal schools... right? But this dance only signals the beginning of our school dance season; soon after homecoming comes Yule Ball and so on and so forth.

So to all the people that need a guide for their dance decorum, I’m here to help you out.

1. You need a date. If you walk into a BASIS dance and you lack a fair lass or lad by your side, you’ll only be mocked. After all, our school is nothing if known for being a center for romantic relationships. If you don’t have a date, you’re sure to be in the minority. So look at your classmates. Odds are you’re going to be stuck with one of them for a couple hours come November 18th if you want to attend homecoming in style. Why not risk creating an incredibly awkward relationship with someone that you’ll have to spend the rest of high school in close quarters with? Do it for the status. Do it for the glory.

2. You should try and trick Smart for Charters. Once again, let us continue the usual Smart for Charters boycott we all seem to engage in. Let us fail to buy tickets in a timely manner and instead roll up to the event expecting that there will be space for us. Even though it’s really our parents that control Smart for Charters, we all still need to take a stand against the cruel labor that we are put through by needing to type out that long, excruciating text to our parents: “buy tix pls.”

3. You should probably stand awkwardly around once you get to the dance. Yes, there is music playing. Yes, there are lights hung strategically in the very romantic atmosphere of our very own gym. But no, you should not move. Stand in a circle. Look around. Maybe bob your head. But definitely try to not move around at all. Your classmates are definitely going to judge you for your dance moves because throughout all the years of knowing you, they haven’t already seen all the worst parts of you.

So, now you know the rules of dances. Get out there and let’s get ready to tango.

Until next time, 

DLC
 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

