---
layout: article
title: Cohen's Complaints
excerpt: "Christy puts her hand up for my mother. “Give me five!” My mom reluctantly obliges, agreeing to become part of the odd and time-consuming Staples ritual."
---

<h2>Back-to-School Woes</h2>
<h4>By Alex Cohen</h4>

Christy puts her hand up for my mother. “Give me five!” 

My mom reluctantly obliges, agreeing to become part of the odd and time-consuming Staples ritual. 

“Thanks! And while you’re at it, you should go online and give me an online high five on our survey! If you do, then my manager will give me a high five, and that’s good. For everyone.” 

Christy looked around at the empty store as if she were surprised that there weren’t more people in her line. Well, when you use exclamation points as often as you use vowels, people tend to shy away from you. 

It goes without saying that back-to-school season is the single worst time of the year. Strangely enough, the thing that makes this season so bad isn’t even going back to school. In fact, the nightmare that kept you up all night when you were in “Cali!” – going back and seeing familiar faces, resigning yourself to find out just what the mitochondrion does for the eight-thousandth time – quickly fades as soon as you find a new friends group or at least find a new garbage can to hide in when the popular kids walk by. No, the back-to-school season is worse for two, more unsettling reasons. 

Any student whose classes no longer consist of stickers and spelling quizzes every Friday knows what it’s like to go school supply shopping. Real school supply shopping. I’m not talking about making a quick stop at Wal-Mart to pick up a package of Barbie pencils; I’m talking about slapped-across-the-face-with-syllabi, gut-wrenching, two-shopping-cart-filling shopping. You get in your car, schlep all the way down to Staples (or Office Max, for those of you with discerning tastes), and force yourself to tell your mother that you definitely need the Five-Star binder and not the generic brand. Then you finally get to the line, which is full of people in the grade below you and no one that you know, and you find that your haul is going to cost you two hundred dollars. Two hundred dollars? I could have bought a small country with that money, but instead I’m spending it on seven binders? Strike one. And if that wasn’t bad enough, you have to deal with unctuous and perpetually dazed office supply store workers like Christy, who try to make stress release balls and printer ink sound like tickets to Disneyland. Trust me, Christy, if the store had even one self-checkout, then I doubt you would be getting any high fives. 

Once you deal with the school supplies and get back into the swing of school, you’re forced to cope with the only thing worse than Fetty Wap’s upcoming album – the heat. It’s mid-August, and you think that you’re going to have a good time at school. You wake up well-rested. You make a lovely breakfast. You did all of your homework, even. You walk out to your car, smile on your face, and you open the door. Ouch, that was a little hot. But no matter, now you’re setting your things down and getting ready to start the car. You put the key in the ignition and turn it: smooth sailing from here on out. You touch the wheel OH MY GOD MY FLESH IS BURNING THIS WHEEL IS SO HOT WHY ARE STEERING WHEELS BLACK MY FLESH IS WELDED TO THE WHEEL AND NOW I CAN’T LET GO. After losing all sensation in your hand from touching the wheel, you finally start driving to school over a river of bubbling asphalt to see people putting cookie sheets out on their dashboards, so that they can film the sizzle and be Facebook famous. Then, you park your car and tote your backpack across the street without jaywalking, and your shirt has sweat through the back of it because human beings were not meant to survive when it’s 120 degrees Fahrenheit at eight in the morning. 

But eventually you get to school, and there’s isn’t much more to write home about, so you just sit through all of your classes and forget that your school is situated in a lake of fire by talking to your friends or hiding in the aforementioned trashcan. At least, until you have to walk back across the street. 

Other than that, there isn’t much to complain about. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
