---
layout: article
image: /img/16.png
title: "Cleopatra"
excerpt: "Cleopatra, The Lumineers’ second album, released in April 2016 almost 4 years after their first, self- titled album."
---

<h2>"Cleopatra"</h2>
<h4>By Luke Forsman</h4>

Cleopatra, The Lumineers’ second album, released in April 2016 almost 4 years after their first, self- titled album. The success they saw in 2012, with their album reaching a peak of second on the Billboard 200, continued with Cleopatra debuting at number 1 on the Billboard 200.

The Lumineers are an alternative folk band, and their songs rely on lyrics and simple guitar lines. Their three main members create a down-to-earth, country feeling with many slow songs accompanied by a few faster,happier songs.

The most well-known song of the album is “Ophelia,” which received a lot of radio coverage. With its memorable chorus and catchy piano, “Ophelia” stands out from most of other the songs. Unlike most other songs, the piano adds a happier and more energetic feel to the song. This feeling is very different from the one other song with a piano in it, “Patience.” This song places a predominant role on the piano and stands out completely due to its brevity and lack of lyrics.

Even though “Patience” didn’t have lyrics, The Lumineers, being a folk band, usually places a large role on their lyrics. The songs “My Eyes Sick in the Head” and “Sleep on the Floor” have their lyr ics completely controlling the song. They are very original and make the singing louder than the instruments in the background.

Other songs have the instruments, mainly a guitar, in charge. “Angela” and “In the Light” start with a complex guitar line to lead into the singing and set the tempo for the rest of the song. “In the Light,” however, adds on to the guitar by introducing a piano and making it more complex.

“Gun song,” “Gale song,” and “Long Way from Home” are very similar to the previous two songs, but do not stand out as much. The vocals do not change, and there isn’t anything to differentiate them other than the lyrics. This is a common problem with folk songs as they often end up sounding very similar.

Despite their genre of music tending towards unmemorable songs, the Lumineeres’ Cleopatra was able to create a few instances of distinction. Based on the immediate reaction to the album’s release, their songs were able to reach the intended audience and influence others new to folk music. For that reason and the album’s few stand-alone songs The Lumineers’ Cleopatra receives four stars out of five. I recommend it for anyone new to or looking for good folk music.
 
<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
<h6> (Source: Music Times) </h6>

