---
layout: article
image: /img/A_DIY_Halloween.png
title: A DIY Halloween
excerpt: "Scanning the aisles of Party City’s Halloween section, seeing the typical witch or clown costume, shying away from the unreasonably high prices the store offers, only to be left driving home without any luck: this can be an unbelievably frustrating experience for anybody."
---

<h2>A DIY Halloween</h2>
<h4>By Bailey Mirmelli</h4>

Scanning the aisles of Party City’s Halloween section, seeing the typical witch or clown costume, shying away from the unreasonably high prices the store offers, only to be left driving home without any luck: this can be an unbelievably frustrating experience for anybody. Halloween is a time of unnecessary social expectations; one cannot simply arrive at a costume party in casual attire. It is a time when uncalled-for measures must be undergone in order to look original and presentable (read frightening). 

But luckily for you, these efforts do not have to be as demanding as they are often made out to be. With these simple costume ideas, you can prevent unneeded spending, save the pain and energy put into creating a time-consuming costume, and still look both imaginative and unique. 

Before you begin, start by thinking of something you would be willing to dress up as. Why not center your costume on something you love? How about your favorite snack? For instance, tape a bunch of purple or green balloons onto a dark T-shirt and go as a cluster of grapes! Or, if you are not the type of person who cares much for blowing up balloons all day, cut out a spiky hat from green construction paper and throw on a yellow t-shirt, and you can be a pineapple. 

Use this occasion to become somebody else. Perhaps you have a favorite role model. Copy a photograph. Put together an outfit and wear a wig. You can also be someone you know very well. Does one of your best friends have a certain look? Make them laugh by impersonating them. Imitate their wardrobe, their hairstyle, and their personality. You can also plan it out with a friend or two, and switch roles for the night.

There can also be creativity in the old ideas. For example, add a twist on the traditional bed sheet ghost. Add a humorous facial expression, accessorize using hats, jewelry, glasses, or anything else you may come across, or use color to add effects or details. 

Why not use this opportunity to bring back your childhood? Wear your most childish pajamas and fuzzy slippers, carry an old favorite stuffed animal, a baby bottle, or a blanket, put your hair into pigtails or braids, and let your inner child out. 

And if these ideas still seem like too much work, embrace your laziness. Celebrate Halloween in sweatpants and a comfortable T-shirt. Bring a Snuggie and a bag of chips or popcorn along with you. Or, take a Sharpie to a plain white T-shirt and write in your sloppiest penmanship “404 Error: Costume Not Found”. 

Now, take some time this Halloween to enjoy the actual pleasures it offers. Costumes aren’t a dire necessity. Don’t spend any more time stressing over finding the perfect costume.  


<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
