---
layout: article
image: /img/sombrero.png
title: Sombreros, Floaties, Salt
excerpt: "Over the past two months, BASIS students have reported peculiar sightings of Upperclassmen, noted particularly for sporting bright-colored floaties."
---

<h2>SURVIVAL: SOMBREROS, SWIM FLOATIES, AND SALT</h2>
<h4>By Eric Kim</h4>

Over the past two months, BASIS students have reported peculiar sightings of Upperclassmen, noted particularly for sporting bright-colored floaties. These students also may be seen wearing festive sombreros, chasing their prey while equipped with plastic water guns, or stealthily salting items of food. However, do not be alarmed if you encounter one of these students; their predatory intentions are reserved strictly for one another. The real question, though, is why they dress and act so oddly.

Last year, BASIS alumni Kathleen Howell and Sydney Galbarski launched “The Elimination Game,” in which upperclassmen can participate in teams of two. This year, seniors Valarie Varanese and Charley Murray continued the tradition, inviting all juniors and seniors to participate for a team fee of $20. With thirty-nine teams of two students and one odd team of three accepting the offer, the game commenced on September 29.

Each team is assigned another team; the aim of the game is for teams to eliminate their assigned targets until one team is left standing. Teams can eliminate targets either by spraying them with some form of water or by “poisoning” their food, which involves secretly sprinkling salt or Tabasco sauce into the target’s food. On the other hand, “safety items,” which can be floaties or sombreros, shield participants from both spraying and poison.

Though these circumstances could potentially wreak chaos in a school environment, there are designated “safe zones,” where targets do not need safety items to stay alive, including school, places of religious worship, sports events, homes, and workplaces. However, in parking lots, during lunch periods, and after school release, participants remain vulnerable to elimination and must be equipped with safety items.

These rules worked well for the first week, especially with the incentive of a mystery prize that will be funded by the entry fees. However, the momentum of the game and the motivation of participants gradually died down to a slow, meager pace, prompting the heads of the game Varanese and Murray to throw in small changes to the rules to quicken the pace of eliminations.

For example, although floaties were the only valid safety items for the first few weeks, the heads designated one week as “Sombrero Week,” during which sombreros would be the only safety item. Several teams were not motivated enough to purchase sombreros in addition to the floaties, so eliminations increased dramatically that week, reaching the halfway point of 40 students remaining.

Additionally, during Sombrero Week, there was a designated Poisoning Day, on which sombreros would not protect against poisonings. The rules also outline a Purge Day, during which teams can target any team, not just their targets, a modification expected in the near future.

<hr style="color:black; border-width:2px; border-color:black; margin: 0px; margin-top: 30px; padding-bottom: 10px;">
