---
layout: article
image: /img/starbucks.png
title: Convenient Coffee
excerpt: "Craving a morning macchiato, but didn’t wake up early enough? Distressed because you forgot your late-night latte in the middle of trimester week? Have no fear; Starbucks is here!"
---

<h2>Convenient Coffee</h2>
<h4>By Julie Cho</h4>

Craving a morning macchiato, but didn’t wake up early enough? Distressed because you forgot your late-night latte in the middle of trimester week? Have no fear; Starbucks is here! 

Recently, Starbucks has announced two new projects that will rewrite coffee history: pre-ordering and delivery. The new options are to debut in Portland, Oregon in December. Beginning in 2015, however, customers all over the world will be able to placed orders on the Starbucks app in advance of their visit and pick them up at their selected Starbucks location. That means no more waiting behind indecisive teenagers or deciphering cups with ridiculously misspelled names.

Moreover, Starbucks took the convenience factor a step further. Not only will coffee lovers have the option to pre-order their frappes, but also the power to have them delivered right to their desk. “Imagine the ability to create a standing order of Starbucks delivered hot or iced to your desk daily... That’s our version of e-commerce on steroids,” Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz boasted.

Starbucks hopes that its new delivery system will provide an edge against the competitive fast-food chains, which now serve specialty coffees (refer to “Fast Food Breakfast Battle” from the September BASIS Gazette). Although this coffee delivery system sounds great in theory, some are worried that it would push up the prices or lower the quality of the drinks. What do you think about the new projects Starbucks is brewing up? 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6>A highly-caffeinated New Year: Starbucks enhances its customer service with pre-ordering and delivery options in 2015.</h6>