---
layout: article
image: /img/lunch.jpg
title: BASIS Lunch Menus
excerpt: "Remember the soggy food and over-cheesy macaroni from middle school? Next time that you start complaining about your lunch in the Upper School Cafeteria, just remember: it could be much worse."
---

<h2>BASIS Lunch Menus</h2>
<h4>By Anuka Upadhye and Anya Wahal</h4>

Remember the soggy food and over-cheesy macaroni from middle school? Next time that you start complaining about your lunch in the Upper School Cafeteria, just remember: it could be much worse. 

Every year in elementary school, we were forced to listen to adults talking about how children need to make healthier food choices in and out of school. We never really listened to them. All we wanted was to get to recess and play tag. We never went for the apples and oranges they put out; cookies and ice cream were the obvious choice. 

Despite all that, the cafeteria food was still, to say the least, disgusting. The cheese on the pizza tasted like rubber; the tater tots, burnt cardboard balls. Children would concoct theories—whispering that the hamburgers actually contained horse meat and shriveled-up worms. 

This brings us to our main point: aren’t we lucky for this plethora of more-than-decent food in our cafeteria? The diverse BASIS population prompts diverse food options as well. On Mondays, students can savor the flavor of Indian food from Marigold Maison, where the Chicken Tikka Masala rules the land. And for those who do not like Indian food, there is always Subway, our trusty sandwich shop. Tuesdays offer Chick-fil-A and Jamba Juice—all-time classics devoured by the BASIS population. Verbal fights over uneaten chicken tenders are common. Students, forgetting that germs exist, greedily take large slurps of their friend’s Jamba Juice. Fragrant wafts of Panda Express fill the hallways of BASIS on Wednesdays, as students tackle chopsticks in a feeble attempt to capture the coveted orange chicken. Thursday’s menu presents options new to BASIS: Señor Taco and Freshbox (organic). Fridays feature another favorite: Redendos. BASIS students eagerly anticipate pizza and pasta on Fridays. 

Here’s to a new year full of exciting food choices and friends with whom to share them. 

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6>Subway lunch menu, courtesy of the Boosters.</h6>