---
layout: article
image: /img/Mars.png
title: Mars - Science’s Most Elusive Question
excerpt: "It has become a popular notion that Mars may potentially serve as a home for mankind in the future. NASA has sent probes and robots to the Red Planet to determine if it can sustain life. This pursuit has been driven largely by the search for water."
---

<h2>Mars: Science’s Most Elusive Question</h2>
<h4>By Divya Vatsa</h4>

It has become a popular notion that Mars may potentially serve as a home for mankind in the future. NASA has sent probes and robots to the Red Planet to determine if it can sustain life. This pursuit has been driven largely by the search for water.

Interestingly, the exploration for water on Mars partly began because of a mistranslation from Italian to English. In 1877, astronomer Giovani Schiaparelli wrote down his observations of the planet’s surface, noting that it had streaks on its surface. He called these streaks canali, which translates to “channels.” The word was accidentally taken to mean ‘canal,’ as in the Panama Canal. This sparked the hypotheses that Mars indeed had water on its surface.

This past month, NASA’s efforts proved this century-long fascination true. Its Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO) recently used an imaging spectrometer to determine that Mars currently does have flowing liquid water on its surface. The MRO’s findings confirm the presence of mysterious streaks that travel downhill on the Red Planet’s mountainous surface. Furthermore, hydrated salts found near these streaks held similar properties as rocks near water sources on Earth.

NASA’s breakthrough discovery reopened some older theories that never gained popularity. An interesting theory that has come back to the spotlight is the “panspermia” theory. A Greek word, “panspermia” means “life everywhere.” The theory formed to answer gaps in Darwin’s theory of evolution and the age of Earth. Darwin’s idea of the Earth’s age was too short to support his notion of how long the evolution of humans must have taken. As our planet’s actual age was determined to support the theory of evolution, “panspermia” died down.

However, the discovery of water on Mars is a turning point for many scientists to now believe that the Red Planet has many indicators that point to life on Mars predating the Earth. As chemist Steven Benner – founder of the Westheimer Institute at the Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution – claimed that Mars’s early atmosphere could very well have held oxygen and lakes and could have supported bits of RNA. According to advocates of “panspermia,” the life on Mars could have then travelled to Earth via a meteor. 

While this theory remains ambiguous, the discovery of water on Mars has opened the doors for greater examination of the Red Planet. As Bill Mesler, co-author of A Brief History of Creation: Science and the Search for the Origin of Life stated, “[A]s we continue to hunt for Martians on Mars, perhaps we should consider the possibility that we've already found them — and that they are us.”

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

<h6> The Red and (Wet) Planet </h6>
