---
layout: article
image: /img/apple.png
title: Losing Wallets
excerpt: "Out flips your handy iPhone and, with just the touch of your thumb, you pay and set off, casually swinging your polythene bag of goodies. 
Like 3D printing and eye detection technologies, this scenario may have seemed absurd, unfeasible, and impossible several years ago. "
---

<h2>Losing Wallets</h2>
<h4>By Jayati Sharma</h4>

“Your total is $23.78.” 

Out flips your handy iPhone and, with just the touch of your thumb, you pay and set off, casually swinging your polythene bag of goodies. 

Like 3D printing and eye detection technologies, this scenario may have seemed absurd, unfeasible, and impossible several years ago. Today, however, we can walk into a number of stores and do it with ease.

While applications, such as Google Wallet, Square, and even PayPal (yes, the PayPal that was once the trademark e-commerce site for schools) already existed, Apple’s revolutionary Apple Pay feature has nudged into the niche and added yet another dimension to its multifaceted personality: mobile wallet service. 

Currently, Apple Pay is compatible with Visa, MasterCard, and American Express; further avenues are expected to open in the future. Supported by a variety of banks and accepted at dozens of stores, including American Eagle, Whole Foods, and Subway, Apple Pay has partnerships with Disney, Starbucks, and Staples, which will be coming soon. In a short time, Apple Pay already achieved considerable success: 1 million credit card activations within the first 72 hours. Apple Pay turned out to be much more successful than its rivals through its accessibility, ease of use, and wide acceptance throughout the United States and soon, the rest of the world. 

The new feature is compatible with the iPhone 6, iPad Air, and Apple Watch. It can be used in stores, on the beloved App Store, and even within applications like Uber, Target, and Groupon, making it even easier for users to shop on impulse and buy all they want with a tap on a screen.  
	
Similar to the gamut of new inventions Apple constantly seems to be creating, Apple Pay has become coveted by the public, who devour all and anything Apple, even without necessarily understanding the complex implications and future consequences. This rampant popularity, according to Apple CEO Tim Cook, will win over even the most reluctant merchants (such as CVS and Rite Aid), who are hesitant about installing entirely mobile commerce interfaces. 

With it being so easy to walk into Starbucks and order that scrumptious Pumpkin Spice with just the gentle touch of a thumb, more and more people are registering both credit and debit cards to get on board of what seems like the Apple Train to the Future. Even in exchange for their wallets.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
