---
layout: article
image: /img/7.jpg
title: Quantum Teleportation?
excerpt: "Teleportation has always been a dream for Trekkies. However, there is actual science that may help develop a solid scientific basis for such a fantastical concept."
---

<h2>Quantum Teleportation?</h2>
<h4>By Eric Ye</h4>

Teleportation has always been a dream for Trekkies. However, there is actual science that may help develop a solid scientific basis for such a fantastical concept. A recent experiment in China has proved that quantum teleportation of lasers pulses over several miles within two cities’ fiber optic networks is indeed possible.

Essentially, the quantum teleportation works by forcing subatomic particles (i.e. electrons) to interact with each other in order to create a relationship dubbed quantum entanglement. This relationship essentially means that if one knows the state of one electron, he/she can know the state of the other entangled electron. However, once one has observed the state of the observed particle, this entanglement is gone. This is why Schrödinger’s Cat is important not just as a piece of trivia, but as a scientific principle.

By moving one particle to its destination and retaining the other, the retained particle is essentially teleported because all the information in this two particle system can be described with just one of the particles. Note that as a result, because electrons travel at around the speed of light, the speed of this teleportation is not instantaneous, but at the speed of light. And this is rather fast -- basically instantaneous.

There are many practical applications of this new technology. With this technology, it then becomes possible to securely transmit messages between two points, and any intrusive activity will be automatically noted, as the quantum state will be destroyed. Moreover, a theoretical quantum internet is also a possibility. This approach will make faster transmission possible.

Let it be clear: teleportation of large scale matter is still not poss ible, so public transportation won’t be replaced by transporters yet. Routine teleportation for transportation presents many issues with which sci-fi has toyed. For example, just see “The Fly”, a horror film where a scientist merges with a fly after transportation.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

