---
layout: article
image: /img/8.png
title: "A Squirmy Solution to the Plastic Problem"
excerpt: "Plastic has become an essential material for day- to-day use. Strong, inexpensive, and easily shaped, it makes up virtually everything, from water bottles to grocery bags. However, plastic is not without faults."
---

<h2>A Squirmy Solution to the Plastic Problem</h2>
<h4>By Vilina Mehta</h4>

Plastic has become an essential material for day- to-day use. Strong, inexpensive, and easily shaped, it makes up virtually everything, from water bottles to grocery bags. However, plastic is not without faults. Trillions of plastic bags have piled up in landfills, making the decomposition of trash a difficult goal to achieve. Additionally, many plastics release harmful chemicals, such as Bisphenol A, into the environment.

With an annual global production of around 80 million tons, one of the most common plastics is polyethylene. Polyethylene has lingered in landfills for decades—even centuries. To combat this global problem, researchers have recently identified an ally in our fight against plastic: the caterpillar. Caterpillars, obtaining a diverse microbial community of digestive bacteria in their guts, can process plastic, thereby speeding its degradation.

To research this process, scientists fed polyethylene to the larvae of pantry moths and scrutinized the bacteria in their digestive systems. They discovered that the caterpillars that ate the plastic contained high levels of several types of bacteria, including <em>Tepidimonas, Pseudomonas, Rhizobiales</em>, and <em>Methylobacteriaceae</em> (ScienceNews).

However, many scientists are skeptical. Some worry that using worms to break down plastic on an industrial scale may create new problems. For instance, the small fragments created by chewing up plastics may pick up and transport toxins, causing potential harm to the environment. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that caterpillars will soon be considered agents in the plastic problem.

So, does that mean we should dump a pile of caterpillars on some shopping bags we need to get rid of? Not exactly. The next step is not to use the caterpillars themselves, but to locate the bacteria in their digestive systems that actually break up the plastic. As scientists continue to isolate these bacteria, they can use them as treatments in landfills, a much more practical solution than having to deal with millions of wriggly caterpillars.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
