---
layout: article
image: /img/8.png
title: "Hurricane Harvey: A Product of Climate Change?"
excerpt: "Hurricane Harvey, the tropical cyclone that struck parts of Texas and Louisiana, has caused immense destruction by flooding infrastructure with “unprecedented rainfall” and causing thousands to seek shelter. By the end of August, ten people had died."
---

<h2>Hurricane Harvey: A Product of Climate Change?</h2>
<h4>By Vilina Mehta</h4>

Hurricane Harvey, the tropical cyclone that struck parts of Texas and Louisiana, has caused immense destruction by flooding infrastructure with “unprecedented rainfall” (<em>Live Science</em>) and causing thousands to seek shelter. By the end of August, ten people had died. On August 27th, the National Weather Service tweeted: "This event is unprecedented & all impacts are unknown & beyond anything experienced.”

What could be causing all of this damage? Firstly, the reason for the extremity of recent storms is a high- pressure system blocking Harvey's movement, causing the storm to be nearly stationary over southeastern Texas. “For several days, it's pretty much meandering around the same place, so the same location keeps getting the intense rain," says Matthew Kelsch, a hydro-meteorologist at the University Corporation of Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colorado. Harvey’s coastal location may also be strengthening it, as the storm is fueled by moisture from the ocean.

Obviously, hurricanes are a natural facet of climate. However, Harvey’s extreme impact has led to numerous questions regarding climate change’s role. It is not easy to answer such questions, as the formation of tropical cyclones is due to multiple causes, such as high sea surface temperatures and weak changes in wind strength. Additionally, cyclones are highly variable in terms of their development, size, and strength. Thus, it is difficult to determine exactly the direct impact of climate change on the hurricane.

Nevertheless, we can conclude that climate change has enhanced the storm in several ways. For instance, because the warmer atmosphere can hold more moisture, climate change has intensified rainfall. Because of the rise in sea levels, storm surges have become more common. Additionally, the stationary summer weather patterns that have prolonged Harvey can be attributed to climate change. Thus, while climate change may not have caused Hurricane Harvey, it has probably contributed to its severity.

For now, however, rather than focusing on climate change’s role in Harvey, officials are concentrating on the safety of residents and plan how to be more prepared for such a disaster in the future.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">
