---
layout: article
image: /img/7.jpg
title: Crossing Dimensions: The Future of 3D Printing
excerpt: "Ever heard the phrase “if you can dream it, you can do it?” 3Doodler’s newest innovation gives that phrase a whole new meaning."
---

<h2>Crossing Dimensions: The Future of 3D Printing</h2>
<h4>By Divya Vatsa</h4>

Ever heard the phrase “if you can dream it, you can do it?” 3Doodler’s newest innovation gives that phrase a whole new meaning. 3Doodle specializes in designing 3D-printing pens. You are probably familiar with the newest evolution of printing: 3D printing. 3D print ing wor ks through fast-setting plast ics that are arranged to create 3D models of desired shapes or objects.

3D printing pens are the newest advancement in 3D printing. The first model of 3Doodler’s pen pioneered the idea that people can draw in 3D. With the newest release of 3Doodler Pro, the company has manufactured a fast-setting plastic that can solidify quickly enough that users can drawn at rapid speeds. In addition to finding methods to improve the speed at which the plastic solidifies, the company has also created multiple filaments beyond simple plastic that can be used to draw the 3D structures, including wood, copper, bronze, nylon, and polycarbonate. These new filaments have tremendous potent ial to expand the scope of 3D - print ing pens beyond mere curios ity to actual professional use.

The 3Doodler Pro was just released on September 1 of this year for $249. And while the pens may be expensive right now, it won’t be long until you are using your own 3D printing pen to make your dreams reality.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

