---
layout: article
image: /img/7.jpg
title: Apple v. FBI
excerpt: "The battle between the FBI and Apple over breaking into the iPhone maker’s encryption system to access personal data is a very challenging, but important legal issue."
---

<h2>Apple v. FBI</h2>
<h4>By Nichole Kyprianou</h4>

The battle between the FBI and Apple over breaking into the iPhone maker’s encryption system to access personal data is a very challenging, but important legal issue. In the middle of its investigation of the San Bernardino attack, the FBI announced that it was unable to unlock an iPhone 5C used by one of the shooters and asked Apple to disable the security features of the phone. However, Apple declined due to its policy to never undermine the security of its products. Opposing the order that compels the company to assist the FBI, Apple is pressuring Congress to step in and define what can be reasonably demanded of a private company.

The dispute between Apple and the FBI highlights an increasingly important concern: the right to privacy. With more people than ever being encompassed in the digital realm, the heightened attention to data privacy is inevitable. U.S. Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis wrote “The Right of Privacy” article which argues for the right to be left alone. This article, published in 1890, laid the foundation of American privacy law and has been largely unchanged throughout the twentieth century. However, debates about unlocking iPhone devices would have been inconceivable in the twentieth century. With an exponential increase of technological advances, the right to privacy isn’t at all clear cut. As of right now, there aren’t existing laws concerning technology such as iPhones which put privacy before national security or vice versa.

Thomas Jefferson said in 1816, “Laws and institutions must go hand in hand with the progress of the human mind.” However, what happens when technological advances surpass the clear boundaries of right and wrong? The Supreme Court has yet to decide.

<hr style="border-color:#7D7D7D;height:0.5px;">

